change definition of GO:0000008 from 'OBSOLETE. A small disulfide-containing redox protein that serves as a general protein disulfide oxidoreductase. Interacts with a broad range of proteins by a redox mechanism, based on the reversible oxidation of 2 cysteine thiol groups to a disulfide, accompanied by the transfer of 2 electrons and 2 protons. The net result is the covalent interconversion of a disulfide and a dithiol.' to 'OBSOLETE. A small disulfide-containing redox protein that serves as a general protein disulfide oxidoreductase. Interacts with a broad range of proteins by a redox mechanism, based on the reversible oxidation of 2 L-cysteine thiol groups to a disulfide, accompanied by the transfer of 2 electrons and 2 protons. The net result is the covalent interconversion of a disulfide and a dithiol.'
change definition of GO:0000096 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur, comprising cysteine, homocysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids containing sulfur, comprising L-cysteine, homocysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.'
change definition of GO:0000097 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids containing sulfur, comprising cysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids containing sulfur, comprising L-cysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.'
change definition of GO:0000098 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids containing sulfur, comprising cysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids containing sulfur, comprising L-cysteine, methionine and selenocysteine.'
change definition of GO:0001631 from 'Combining with a cysteinyl leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity. Cysteinyl leukotrienes are leukotrienes that contain a peptide group based on cysteine.' to 'Combining with a cysteinyl leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity. Cysteinyl leukotrienes are leukotrienes that contain a peptide group based on L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0002143 from 'The process in which a uridine residue at position 34 in the anticodon of a tRNA is post-transcriptionally thiolated at the C2 position. This process involves transfer of a sulfur from cysteine to position C2 by several steps.' to 'The process in which a uridine residue at position 34 in the anticodon of a tRNA is post-transcriptionally thiolated at the C2 position. This process involves transfer of a sulfur from L-cysteine to position C2 by several steps.'
change synonym 'protein cysteine-thiol oxidation' for GO:0003756 to 'protein L-cysteine-thiol oxidation'
change synonym 'O-succinyl-L-homoserine succinate-lyase (adding cysteine) activity' for GO:0003962 to 'O-succinyl-L-homoserine succinate-lyase (adding L-cysteine) activity'
change synonym 'L-cystathionine cysteine-lyase (deaminating)' for GO:0004123 to 'L-cystathionine L-cysteine-lyase (deaminating)'
change synonym 'L-cystathionine cysteine-lyase (deaminating; 2-oxobutanoate-forming)' for GO:0004123 to 'L-cystathionine L-cysteine-lyase (deaminating; 2-oxobutanoate-forming)'
rename GO:0004124 from 'cysteine synthase activity' to 'L-cysteine synthase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine synthetase activity' for GO:0004124 to 'L-cysteine synthetase activity'
rename GO:0004197 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change synonym 'lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' for GO:0004197 to 'lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change definition of GO:0004197 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.'
rename GO:0004198 from 'calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'calcium-dependent L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0004198 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of nonterminal peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism using a cysteine residue at the enzyme active center, and requiring the presence of calcium.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of nonterminal peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism using a L-cysteine residue at the enzyme active center, and requiring the presence of calcium.'
rename GO:0004212 from 'obsolete lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' to 'obsolete lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change synonym 'lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' for GO:0004212 to 'lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change synonym 'Aldrichina grahami cysteine proteinase' for GO:0004217 to 'Aldrichina grahami L-cysteine proteinase'
change synonym 'yeast cysteine proteinase D activity' for GO:0004247 to 'yeast L-cysteine proteinase D activity'
change synonym 'yeast cysteine proteinase F' for GO:0004290 to 'yeast L-cysteine proteinase F'
change definition of GO:0004661 from 'Catalysis of the covalent addition of a geranylgeranyl (20-carbon isoprenoid) group via thioether linkages to a cysteine residue at or near the C terminus of a protein.' to 'Catalysis of the covalent addition of a geranylgeranyl (20-carbon isoprenoid) group via thioether linkages to a L-cysteine residue at or near the C terminus of a protein.'
change definition of GO:0004662 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: geranylgeranyl diphosphate + protein-cysteine = S-geranylgeranyl-protein + diphosphate. This reaction is the formation of a thioether linkage between the C-1 atom of the geranylgeranyl group and a cysteine residue fourth from the C-terminus of the protein. The protein substrates have the C-terminal sequence CA1A2X, where the terminal residue, X, is preferably leucine and A2 should not be aromatic. Known substrates include most g-subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins and Ras-related GTPases such as members of the Ras and Rac/Rho families.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: geranylgeranyl diphosphate + protein-cysteine = S-geranylgeranyl-protein + diphosphate. This reaction is the formation of a thioether linkage between the C-1 atom of the geranylgeranyl group and a L-cysteine residue fourth from the C-terminus of the protein. The protein substrates have the C-terminal sequence CA1A2X, where the terminal residue, X, is preferably leucine and A2 should not be aromatic. Known substrates include most g-subunits of heterotrimeric G proteins and Ras-related GTPases such as members of the Ras and Rac/Rho families.'
change definition of GO:0004663 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: 2 geranylgeranyl diphosphate + protein-cysteine = 2 S-geranylgeranyl-protein + 2 diphosphate. This reaction is the formation of two thioether linkages between the C-1 atom of the geranylgeranyl groups and two cysteine residues within the terminal sequence motifs XXCC, XCXC or CCXX. Known substrates include Ras-related GTPases of a single family and the Rab family.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: 2 geranylgeranyl diphosphate + protein-cysteine = 2 S-geranylgeranyl-protein + 2 diphosphate. This reaction is the formation of two thioether linkages between the C-1 atom of the geranylgeranyl groups and two L-cysteine residues within the terminal sequence motifs XXCC, XCXC or CCXX. Known substrates include Ras-related GTPases of a single family and the Rab family.'
change synonym 'farnesyl cysteine C-terminal methyltransferase activity' for GO:0004671 to 'farnesyl L-cysteine C-terminal methyltransferase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine-sulfinate decarboxylase activity' for GO:0004782 to 'L-cysteine-sulfinate decarboxylase activity'
rename GO:0004817 from 'cysteine-tRNA ligase activity' to 'L-cysteine-tRNA ligase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine translase activity' for GO:0004817 to 'L-cysteine translase activity'
change definition of GO:0004839 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: E1 + ubiquitin + ATP--> E1-ubiquitin + AMP + PPi, where the E1-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond between the C-terminal glycine of Ub and a sulfhydryl side group of an E1 cysteine residue. This is the first step in a cascade of reactions in which ubiquitin is ultimately added to a protein substrate.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: E1 + ubiquitin + ATP--> E1-ubiquitin + AMP + PPi, where the E1-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond between the C-terminal glycine of Ub and a sulfhydryl side group of an E1 L-cysteine residue. This is the first step in a cascade of reactions in which ubiquitin is ultimately added to a protein substrate.'
rename GO:0004843 from 'cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity'
rename GO:0004869 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity'
change synonym 'cysteine protease inhibitor activity' for GO:0004869 to 'L-cysteine protease inhibitor activity'
change definition of GO:0004869 from 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase.' to 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase.'
change definition of GO:0004950 from 'Combining with a chemokine, and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.' to 'Combining with a chemokine, and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved L-cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.'
change definition of GO:0004974 from 'Combining with a leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity. Leukotrienes are pharmacologically active substances with a set of three conjugated double bonds; some contain a peptide group based on cysteine.' to 'Combining with a leukotriene to initiate a change in cell activity. Leukotrienes are pharmacologically active substances with a set of three conjugated double bonds; some contain a peptide group based on L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0006423 from "The process of coupling cysteine to cysteinyl-tRNA, catalyzed by cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase. A cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase is a class-I synthetase. The activated amino acid is transferred to the 2'-OH group of a cysteine-accetping tRNA. The 2'-O-aminoacyl-tRNA will ultimately migrate to the 3' position via transesterification." to "The process of coupling L-cysteine to cysteinyl-tRNA, catalyzed by cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase. A cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase is a class-I synthetase. The activated amino acid is transferred to the 2'-OH group of a L-cysteine-accetping tRNA. The 2'-O-aminoacyl-tRNA will ultimately migrate to the 3' position via transesterification."
rename GO:0006484 from 'obsolete protein cysteine-thiol oxidation' to 'obsolete protein L-cysteine-thiol oxidation'
change synonym 'protein cysteine-thiol oxidation' for GO:0006484 to 'protein L-cysteine-thiol oxidation'
change definition of GO:0006484 from 'OBSOLETE. Oxidation of two cysteine sulfhydryl groups (thiols) in one protein by a disulfide bond in a second protein to form a disulfide bond in the first protein and two reduced sulfhydryls in the second. The oxidized cysteines linked by a disulfide bond is known as cystine.' to 'OBSOLETE. Oxidation of two L-cysteine sulfhydryl groups (thiols) in one protein by a disulfide bond in a second protein to form a disulfide bond in the first protein and two reduced sulfhydryls in the second. The oxidized cysteines linked by a disulfide bond is known as cystine.'
rename GO:0006534 from 'cysteine metabolic process' to 'L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'cysteine metabolism' for GO:0006534 to 'L-cysteine metabolism'
change definition of GO:0006534 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving L-cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.'
rename GO:0006535 from 'cysteine biosynthetic process from serine' to 'L-cysteine biosynthetic process from serine'
change synonym 'cysteine anabolism from serine' for GO:0006535 to 'L-cysteine anabolism from serine'
change synonym 'cysteine formation from serine' for GO:0006535 to 'L-cysteine formation from serine'
change synonym 'cysteine synthesis from serine' for GO:0006535 to 'L-cysteine synthesis from serine'
change definition of GO:0006535 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cysteine from other compounds, including serine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of L-cysteine from other compounds, including serine.'
change definition of GO:0006790 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving the nonmetallic element sulfur or compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and L-cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.'
rename GO:0006919 from 'activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0006919 from 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process.' to 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme L-cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process.'
change definition of GO:0008009 from 'The function of a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.' to 'The function of a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved L-cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.'
rename GO:0008234 from 'cysteine-type peptidase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type peptidase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine protease activity' for GO:0008234 to 'L-cysteine protease activity'
change definition of GO:0008234 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.'
change synonym 'cysteine-type endopeptidase complex' for GO:0008303 to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase complex'
change definition of GO:0008303 from 'A protein complex that contains one or more cysteine-type endopeptidases (also called caspases), which give the complex a peptidase activity with specificity for the hydrolysis of aspartyl bonds. These complexes may be involved e.g. in apoptotic or inflammation processes.' to 'A protein complex that contains one or more L-cysteine-type endopeptidases (also called caspases), which give the complex a peptidase activity with specificity for the hydrolysis of aspartyl bonds. These complexes may be involved e.g. in apoptotic or inflammation processes.'
change definition of GO:0008318 from 'Catalysis of the covalent addition of an isoprenoid group such as a farnesyl or geranylgeranyl group via thioether linkages to a cysteine residue in a protein.' to 'Catalysis of the covalent addition of an isoprenoid group such as a farnesyl or geranylgeranyl group via thioether linkages to a L-cysteine residue in a protein.'
rename GO:0008635 from 'activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process by cytochrome c' to 'activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process by cytochrome c'
change definition of GO:0008635 from 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process and is mediated by cytochrome c.' to 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme L-cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process and is mediated by cytochrome c.'
change definition of GO:0008636 from 'OBSOLETE. Upregulation of the activity of a caspase, a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis, by the addition of a phosphate group.' to 'OBSOLETE. Upregulation of the activity of a caspase, a group of L-cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis, by the addition of a phosphate group.'
rename GO:0008656 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0008656 from 'Binds to and increases the rate of proteolysis catalyzed by a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.' to 'Binds to and increases the rate of proteolysis catalyzed by a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.'
rename GO:0008826 from 'cysteine sulfinate desulfinase activity' to 'L-cysteine sulfinate desulfinase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine sulphinate desulphinase activity' for GO:0008826 to 'L-cysteine sulphinate desulphinase activity'
change definition of GO:0008961 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of the diacylglyceryl group from phosphatidylglycerol to the sulfhydryl group of the prospective N-terminal cysteine residue in an unmodified prolipoprotein.' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of the diacylglyceryl group from phosphatidylglycerol to the sulfhydryl group of the prospective N-terminal L-cysteine residue in an unmodified prolipoprotein.'
change definition of GO:0009069 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family, comprising cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving amino acids of the serine family, comprising L-cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.'
change definition of GO:0009070 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids of the serine family, comprising cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of amino acids of the serine family, comprising L-cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.'
change definition of GO:0009071 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the serine family, comprising cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of amino acids of the serine family, comprising L-cysteine, glycine, homoserine, selenocysteine and serine.'
rename GO:0009093 from 'cysteine catabolic process' to 'L-cysteine catabolic process'
change synonym 'cysteine breakdown' for GO:0009093 to 'L-cysteine breakdown'
change synonym 'cysteine catabolism' for GO:0009093 to 'L-cysteine catabolism'
change synonym 'cysteine degradation' for GO:0009093 to 'L-cysteine degradation'
change definition of GO:0009093 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of L-cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.'
rename GO:0009333 from 'cysteine synthase complex' to 'L-cysteine synthase complex'
change definition of GO:0009461 from 'OBSOLETE. A cytochrome containing heme bound to the protein by one or, more (commonly two) thioether bonds involving sulfhydryl groups of cysteine residues.' to 'OBSOLETE. A cytochrome containing heme bound to the protein by one or, more (commonly two) thioether bonds involving sulfhydryl groups of L-cysteine residues.'
change definition of GO:0009489 from 'OBSOLETE. A low molecular weight mononuclear iron protein involved in electron transfer, with an iron tetrahedrally coordinated by the sulfurs of four conserved cysteine residues.' to 'OBSOLETE. A low molecular weight mononuclear iron protein involved in electron transfer, with an iron tetrahedrally coordinated by the sulfurs of four conserved L-cysteine residues.'
rename GO:0010859 from 'calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity' to 'calcium-dependent L-cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity'
change definition of GO:0010859 from 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a calcium-dependent cysteine-type endopeptidase, any enzyme that hydrolyzes peptide bonds in polypeptides by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile in a calcium-dependent manner.' to 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a calcium-dependent L-cysteine-type endopeptidase, any enzyme that hydrolyzes peptide bonds in polypeptides by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile in a calcium-dependent manner.'
change definition of GO:0016494 from 'Combining with a C-X-C chemokine and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity. A C-X-C chemokine has a single amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four cysteine motif.' to 'Combining with a C-X-C chemokine and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity. A C-X-C chemokine has a single amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four L-cysteine motif.'
rename GO:0016807 from 'cysteine-type carboxypeptidase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type carboxypeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0016807 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single C-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single C-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.'
change definition of GO:0017109 from 'An enzyme complex that catalyzes the ligation of glutamate to cysteine, forming glutamylcysteine.' to 'An enzyme complex that catalyzes the ligation of glutamate to L-cysteine, forming glutamylcysteine.'
rename GO:0017172 from 'cysteine dioxygenase activity' to 'L-cysteine dioxygenase activity'
change definition of GO:0018009 from 'The covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a nitrogen (N) atom in an N-terminal cysteine residue to form N-palmitoyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a nitrogen (N) atom in an N-terminal L-cysteine residue to form N-palmitoyl-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018081 from 'OBSOLETE. The synthesis of (2R,6R)-lanthionine, sn-(2S,6R)-lanthionine or (2S,3S,6R)-3-methyl-lanthionine, forming an intra-polypeptide cross-link between peptidyl-cysteine, and peptidyl-serine or peptidyl-threonine; dehydration of the serine or threonine residue to the alpha,beta-unsaturated amino acid is the first step; a bond then forms between the ethylene (ethene) group thus formed and the sulfur atom of a cysteine, with the inversion of the configuration of the alpha carbon of the serine or threonine occurring during the process.' to 'OBSOLETE. The synthesis of (2R,6R)-lanthionine, sn-(2S,6R)-lanthionine or (2S,3S,6R)-3-methyl-lanthionine, forming an intra-polypeptide cross-link between peptidyl-cysteine, and peptidyl-serine or peptidyl-threonine; dehydration of the serine or threonine residue to the alpha,beta-unsaturated amino acid is the first step; a bond then forms between the ethylene (ethene) group thus formed and the sulfur atom of a L-cysteine, with the inversion of the configuration of the alpha carbon of the serine or threonine occurring during the process.'
change definition of GO:0018096 from 'OBSOLETE. The synthesis of (S,Z)-S-(2-aminovinyl)cysteine forming an intra-polypeptide cross-link between serine and cysteine.' to 'OBSOLETE. The synthesis of (S,Z)-S-(2-aminovinyl)L-cysteine forming an intra-polypeptide cross-link between serine and L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018115 from 'The modification of cysteine to form peptidyl-S-diphytanylglycerol diether-L-cysteine.' to 'The modification of L-cysteine to form peptidyl-S-diphytanylglycerol diether-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018119 from 'The covalent addition of a nitric oxide (NO) group to the sulphur (S) atom of a cysteine residue in a protein, to form peptidyl-S-nitrosyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The covalent addition of a nitric oxide (NO) group to the sulphur (S) atom of a L-cysteine residue in a protein, to form peptidyl-S-nitrosyl-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018132 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a serine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl L-cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a serine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018133 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a serine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl L-cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a serine hydroxyl with the carbonyl of the preceding residue.'
change definition of GO:0018137 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl glycine cross-link by the condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl glycine cross-link by the condensation of a L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018138 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl serine cross-link by the condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl serine cross-link by the condensation of a L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018139 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl phenylalanine cross-link by the condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl phenylalanine cross-link by the condensation of a L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018140 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl L-cysteine cross-link by the condensation of a L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018141 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl lysine cross-link by the condensation of a cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl lysine cross-link by the condensation of a L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018157 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl glycine, or peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl glycine cross-link by the condensation of the serine hydroxyl or cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl serine-peptidyl glycine, or peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl glycine cross-link by the condensation of the serine hydroxyl or L-cysteine thiol with the carbonyl of the preceding residue and alpha-beta dehydrogenation.'
change definition of GO:0018160 from 'The covalent binding of a pyrromethane (dipyrrin) cofactor to protein via the sulfur atom of cysteine forming dipyrrolylmethanemethyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The covalent binding of a pyrromethane (dipyrrin) cofactor to protein via the sulfur atom of L-cysteine forming dipyrrolylmethanemethyl-L-cysteine.'
rename GO:0018192 from 'obsolete enzyme active site formation via cysteine modification to L-cysteine persulfide' to 'obsolete enzyme active site formation via L-cysteine modification to L-cysteine persulfide'
change definition of GO:0018226 from 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-S-farnesyl-L-cysteine; formation of S-farnesycysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CXXX motif and methyl esterification of the farnesylated cysteine; the residue may be found at the first position in the sequence motif C-X-X-(SAQCMT)* where the second and third positions are usually aliphatic.' to 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-S-farnesyl-L-cysteine; formation of S-farnesycysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CXXX motif and methyl esterification of the farnesylated L-cysteine; the residue may be found at the first position in the sequence motif C-X-X-(SAQCMT)* where the second and third positions are usually aliphatic.'
change definition of GO:0018227 from 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form S-12-hydroxyfarnesyl-L-cysteine; formation of S-farnesycysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CXXX motif and methyl esterification of the farnesylated cysteine.' to 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form S-12-hydroxyfarnesyl-L-cysteine; formation of S-farnesycysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CXXX motif and methyl esterification of the farnesylated L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018228 from 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-S-geranylgeranylcysteine; formation of S-geranylgeranyl-L-cysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CAAX motif and methyl esterification of the geranylgeranylated cysteine; methyl esterification but not cleavage occurs for the CXC motif. For the type II geranylgeranyltransferase the residue may be found at the first and final positions in the sequence motif C-X-C* or at the final position in the sequence motif C-C*. These motifs are necessary but not sufficient for modification.' to 'The modification of peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-S-geranylgeranylcysteine; formation of S-geranylgeranyl-L-cysteine may be coupled with subsequent cleavage of a carboxy-terminal tripeptide for the CAAX motif and methyl esterification of the geranylgeranylated L-cysteine; methyl esterification but not cleavage occurs for the CXC motif. For the type II geranylgeranyltransferase the residue may be found at the first and final positions in the sequence motif C-X-C* or at the final position in the sequence motif C-C*. These motifs are necessary but not sufficient for modification.'
change definition of GO:0018230 from 'The covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a sulfur (S) atom within a cysteine residue to form peptidyl-S-palmitoyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The covalent attachment of a palmitoyl group to a sulfur (S) atom within a L-cysteine residue to form peptidyl-S-palmitoyl-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018234 from "OBSOLETE. The thioether cross-linking of a cysteine residue to a tyrosine residue to form 3'-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-tyrosine, found in galactose oxidase." to "OBSOLETE. The thioether cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to a tyrosine residue to form 3'-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-tyrosine, found in galactose oxidase."
rename GO:0018240 from 'protein S-linked glycosylation via cysteine' to 'protein S-linked glycosylation via L-cysteine'
change synonym 'protein amino acid S-linked glycosylation via cysteine' for GO:0018240 to 'protein amino acid S-linked glycosylation via L-cysteine'
rename GO:0018248 from 'obsolete enzyme active site formation via peptidyl cysteine sulfation' to 'obsolete enzyme active site formation via peptidyl L-cysteine sulfation'
change definition of GO:0018253 from 'OBSOLETE. The formation of a protein active site cross-link from the alpha-carboxyl carbon of residue n, an alanine, serine or cysteine, to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue n+2, a glycine, and a dehydration to form a double bond to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue n+1. This cross-linking is coupled with an oxidation of residue n+1 to form an active aldehyde.' to 'OBSOLETE. The formation of a protein active site cross-link from the alpha-carboxyl carbon of residue n, an alanine, serine or L-cysteine, to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue n+2, a glycine, and a dehydration to form a double bond to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue n+1. This cross-linking is coupled with an oxidation of residue n+1 to form an active aldehyde.'
change definition of GO:0018255 from 'OBSOLETE. The formation of S-(peptidyl-glycyl)-peptidyl-cysteine cross-links by the formation of a thiolester between cysteine and the carboxy-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and other proteins.' to 'OBSOLETE. The formation of S-(peptidyl-glycyl)-peptidyl-cysteine cross-links by the formation of a thiolester between L-cysteine and the carboxy-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and other proteins.'
change definition of GO:0018275 from 'The acetylation of the N-terminal cysteine of proteins to form the derivative N-acetyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The acetylation of the N-terminal L-cysteine of proteins to form the derivative N-acetyl-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0018279 from 'The glycosylation of protein via the N4 atom of peptidyl-asparagine forming N4-glycosyl-L-asparagine; the most common form is N-acetylglucosaminyl asparagine; N-acetylgalactosaminyl asparagine and N4 glucosyl asparagine also occur. This modification typically occurs in extracellular peptides with an N-X-(ST) motif. Partial modification has been observed to occur with cysteine, rather than serine or threonine, in the third position; secondary structure features are important, and proline in the second or fourth positions inhibits modification.' to 'The glycosylation of protein via the N4 atom of peptidyl-asparagine forming N4-glycosyl-L-asparagine; the most common form is N-acetylglucosaminyl asparagine; N-acetylgalactosaminyl asparagine and N4 glucosyl asparagine also occur. This modification typically occurs in extracellular peptides with an N-X-(ST) motif. Partial modification has been observed to occur with L-cysteine, rather than serine or threonine, in the third position; secondary structure features are important, and proline in the second or fourth positions inhibits modification.'
change definition of GO:0018280 from 'A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via a sulfur atom of a peptidyl-amino-acid such as cysteine or methionine.' to 'A protein glycosylation process in which a carbohydrate or carbohydrate derivative unit is added to a protein via a sulfur atom of a peptidyl-amino-acid such as L-cysteine or methionine.'
change definition of GO:0018282 from 'The formation of a cluster of several metal atoms, including iron, nickel, molybdenum, vanadium, or copper, with one or more bridging (mu-bond) sulfur atoms; amino acids residues in proteins that may ligate the metal sulfur cluster are cysteine, histidine, aspartate, glutamate, serine and cysteine persulfide.' to 'The formation of a cluster of several metal atoms, including iron, nickel, molybdenum, vanadium, or copper, with one or more bridging (mu-bond) sulfur atoms; amino acids residues in proteins that may ligate the metal sulfur cluster are L-cysteine, histidine, aspartate, glutamate, serine and L-cysteine persulfide.'
change definition of GO:0018351 from 'OBSOLETE. The addition of an ester group to a cysteine residue in a protein.' to 'OBSOLETE. The addition of an ester group to a L-cysteine residue in a protein.'
change definition of GO:0018386 from 'The condensation of pyruvate through the 2-oxo group with the N-terminal cysteine of proteins to form the derivative N-pyruvic acid 2-iminyl-L-cysteine.' to 'The condensation of pyruvate through the 2-oxo group with the N-terminal L-cysteine of proteins to form the derivative N-pyruvic acid 2-iminyl-L-cysteine.'
change synonym 'suppression by virus of host cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' for GO:0019050 to 'suppression by virus of host L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change synonym 'induction by virus of host cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' for GO:0019051 to 'induction by virus of host L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
rename GO:0019267 from 'asparagine biosynthetic process from cysteine' to 'asparagine biosynthetic process from L-cysteine'
change synonym 'asparagine anabolism from cysteine' for GO:0019267 to 'asparagine anabolism from L-cysteine'
change synonym 'asparagine formation from cysteine' for GO:0019267 to 'asparagine formation from L-cysteine'
change synonym 'asparagine synthesis from cysteine' for GO:0019267 to 'asparagine synthesis from L-cysteine'
change definition of GO:0019267 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of asparagine from other compounds, including cysteine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of asparagine from other compounds, including L-cysteine.'
rename GO:0019343 from 'cysteine biosynthetic process via cystathionine' to 'L-cysteine biosynthetic process via cystathionine'
change synonym 'cysteine anabolism via cystathionine' for GO:0019343 to 'L-cysteine anabolism via cystathionine'
change synonym 'cysteine formation via cystathionine' for GO:0019343 to 'L-cysteine formation via cystathionine'
change synonym 'cysteine synthesis via cystathionine' for GO:0019343 to 'L-cysteine synthesis via cystathionine'
change definition of GO:0019343 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cysteine, via the intermediate cystathionine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of L-cysteine, via the intermediate cystathionine.'
rename GO:0019344 from 'cysteine biosynthetic process' to 'L-cysteine biosynthetic process'
change synonym 'cysteine anabolism' for GO:0019344 to 'L-cysteine anabolism'
change synonym 'cysteine biosynthesis' for GO:0019344 to 'L-cysteine biosynthesis'
change synonym 'cysteine formation' for GO:0019344 to 'L-cysteine formation'
change synonym 'cysteine synthesis' for GO:0019344 to 'L-cysteine synthesis'
change definition of GO:0019344 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of L-cysteine, 2-amino-3-mercaptopropanoic acid.'
rename GO:0019345 from 'cysteine biosynthetic process via S-sulfo-L-cysteine' to 'L-cysteine biosynthetic process via S-sulfo-L-cysteine'
change synonym 'cysteine anabolism via S-sulfo-L-cysteine' for GO:0019345 to 'L-cysteine anabolism via S-sulfo-L-cysteine'
change synonym 'cysteine biosynthesis via S-sulpho-L-cysteine' for GO:0019345 to 'L-cysteine biosynthesis via S-sulpho-L-cysteine'
change synonym 'cysteine biosynthetic process via S-sulpho-L-cysteine' for GO:0019345 to 'L-cysteine biosynthetic process via S-sulpho-L-cysteine'
change synonym 'cysteine formation via S-sulfo-L-cysteine' for GO:0019345 to 'L-cysteine formation via S-sulfo-L-cysteine'
change synonym 'cysteine synthesis via S-sulfo-L-cysteine' for GO:0019345 to 'L-cysteine synthesis via S-sulfo-L-cysteine'
change definition of GO:0019345 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of cysteine, via the intermediate S-sulfo-L-cysteine.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of L-cysteine, via the intermediate S-sulfo-L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0019346 from 'The interconversion of homocysteine and cysteine via cystathionine. In contrast with enteric bacteria and mammals, Saccharomyces cerevisiae has two transsulfuration pathways employing two separate sets of enzymes.' to 'The interconversion of homocysteine and L-cysteine via cystathionine. In contrast with enteric bacteria and mammals, Saccharomyces cerevisiae has two transsulfuration pathways employing two separate sets of enzymes.'
rename GO:0019451 from 'L-cysteine catabolic process to pyruvate, using cysteine dioxygenase' to 'L-cysteine catabolic process to pyruvate, using L-cysteine dioxygenase'
change synonym 'L-cysteine breakdown to pyruvate, using cysteine dioxygenase' for GO:0019451 to 'L-cysteine breakdown to pyruvate, using L-cysteine dioxygenase'
change synonym 'L-cysteine degradation to pyruvate, using cysteine dioxygenase' for GO:0019451 to 'L-cysteine degradation to pyruvate, using L-cysteine dioxygenase'
change definition of GO:0019451 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown into pyruvate of L-cystine, catalyzed by the enzyme cysteine dioxygenase (EC:1.13.11.20).' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown into pyruvate of L-cystine, catalyzed by the enzyme L-cysteine dioxygenase (EC:1.13.11.20).'
rename GO:0019456 from 'L-cysteine catabolic process via cystine, using cysteine transaminase' to 'L-cysteine catabolic process via cystine, using L-cysteine transaminase'
change synonym 'L-cysteine breakdown via cystine, using cysteine transaminase' for GO:0019456 to 'L-cysteine breakdown via cystine, using L-cysteine transaminase'
change synonym 'L-cysteine degradation via cystine, using cysteine transaminase' for GO:0019456 to 'L-cysteine degradation via cystine, using L-cysteine transaminase'
change definition of GO:0019456 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown, via the compound cystine, of L-cysteine, catalyzed by the enzyme cysteine transaminase.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown, via the compound cystine, of L-cysteine, catalyzed by the enzyme L-cysteine transaminase.'
change definition of GO:0019705 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of a myristoyl (systematic name, tetradecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on a cysteine residue of a protein molecule in the reaction: tetradecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-tetradecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of a myristoyl (systematic name, tetradecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on a L-cysteine residue of a protein molecule in the reaction: tetradecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-tetradecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].'
change definition of GO:0019706 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl (systematic name, hexadecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction hexadecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-hexadecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of a palmitoyl (systematic name, hexadecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the L-cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction hexadecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-hexadecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].'
change definition of GO:0019707 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a sulfur atom on the cysteine of a protein molecule.' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of an acyl group to a sulfur atom on the L-cysteine of a protein molecule.'
change definition of GO:0019926 from 'OBSOLETE. The oxidation of peptidyl-tryptophan to form tryptophan-6,7-dione, otherwise known as tryptophyl quinone, which is further modified by cross-linking to either tryptophan or cysteine.' to 'OBSOLETE. The oxidation of peptidyl-tryptophan to form tryptophan-6,7-dione, otherwise known as tryptophyl quinone, which is further modified by cross-linking to either tryptophan or L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:0019927 from "OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a cysteine residue to tryptophyl quinone to form 4'-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-tryptophyl quinone, a cofactor found at the active site of amine dehydrogenase." to "OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to tryptophyl quinone to form 4'-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-tryptophyl quinone, a cofactor found at the active site of amine dehydrogenase."
change definition of GO:0019928 from 'OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a cysteine residue to an aspartic acid residue to form 3-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-aspartic acid.' to 'OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to an aspartic acid residue to form 3-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-aspartic acid.'
change definition of GO:0019929 from 'OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a cysteine residue to a glutamic acid residue to form 4-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-glutamic acid.' to 'OBSOLETE. The cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to a glutamic acid residue to form 4-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-glutamic acid.'
change definition of GO:0019956 from 'Binding to a chemokine. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.' to 'Binding to a chemokine. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved L-cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.'
change definition of GO:0019958 from 'Binding to a C-X-C chemokine; C-X-C chemokines have a single amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four cysteine motif.' to 'Binding to a C-X-C chemokine; C-X-C chemokines have a single amino acid between the first two cysteines of the characteristic four L-cysteine motif.'
change definition of GO:0030274 from 'Binding to a LIM domain (for Lin-11 Isl-1 Mec-3) of a protein, a domain with seven conserved cysteine residues and a histidine, that binds two zinc ions and acts as an interface for protein-protein interactions.' to 'Binding to a LIM domain (for Lin-11 Isl-1 Mec-3) of a protein, a domain with seven conserved L-cysteine residues and a histidine, that binds two zinc ions and acts as an interface for protein-protein interactions.'
change definition of GO:0030328 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid L-cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.'
change definition of GO:0030329 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways involving prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid L-cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.'
change definition of GO:0030945 from 'The catalysis of phosphate removal from a phosphotyrosine using cysteine as a nucleophile and proceed by means of a thiol-phosphate intermediate.' to 'The catalysis of phosphate removal from a phosphotyrosine using L-cysteine as a nucleophile and proceed by means of a thiol-phosphate intermediate.'
rename GO:0031071 from 'cysteine desulfurase activity' to 'L-cysteine desulfurase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine desulfurylase activity' for GO:0031071 to 'L-cysteine desulfurylase activity'
change synonym 'L-cysteine:enzyme cysteine sulfurtransferase activity' for GO:0031071 to 'L-cysteine:enzyme L-cysteine sulfurtransferase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine proteinase 3C' for GO:0031079 to 'L-cysteine proteinase 3C'
change definition of GO:0031211 from 'A complex of the endoplasmic reticulum that catalyzes S-palmitoylation, the addition of palmitate (C16:0) or other long-chain fatty acids to proteins at a cysteine residue.' to 'A complex of the endoplasmic reticulum that catalyzes S-palmitoylation, the addition of palmitate (C16:0) or other long-chain fatty acids to proteins at a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0032602 from 'The appearance of a chemokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.' to 'The appearance of a chemokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels. All chemokines possess a number of conserved L-cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria.'
rename GO:0033228 from 'cysteine export across plasma membrane' to 'L-cysteine export across plasma membrane'
change synonym 'cysteine export' for GO:0033228 to 'L-cysteine export'
change definition of GO:0033228 from 'The directed movement of cysteine from inside of a cell, across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region.' to 'The directed movement of L-cysteine from inside of a cell, across the plasma membrane and into the extracellular region.'
rename GO:0033229 from 'cysteine transmembrane transporter activity' to 'L-cysteine transmembrane transporter activity'
change definition of GO:0033229 from 'Enables the transfer of cysteine from one side of a membrane to the other.' to 'Enables the transfer of L-cysteine from one side of a membrane to the other.'
rename GO:0033230 from 'ABC-type cysteine transporter activity' to 'ABC-type L-cysteine transporter activity'
change synonym 'ATP-dependent cysteine transporter activity' for GO:0033230 to 'ATP-dependent L-cysteine transporter activity'
change synonym 'cysteine-transporting ATPase activity' for GO:0033230 to 'L-cysteine-transporting ATPase activity'
change synonym 'ATPase-coupled cysteine transmembrane transporter activity' for GO:0033230 to 'ATPase-coupled L-cysteine transmembrane transporter activity'
change synonym 'ATPase-coupled cysteine transporter activity' for GO:0033230 to 'ATPase-coupled L-cysteine transporter activity'
change synonym 'cysteine exporter' for GO:0033230 to 'L-cysteine exporter'
change synonym 'cysteine-exporting ATPase activity' for GO:0033230 to 'L-cysteine-exporting ATPase activity'
change definition of GO:0033230 from 'Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O + cysteine(out/in) = ADP + phosphate + cysteine(in/out).' to 'Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: ATP + H2O + L-cysteine(out/in) = ADP + phosphate + L-cysteine(in/out).'
change synonym 'cysteine tRNA' for GO:0033413 to 'L-cysteine tRNA'
change synonym 'cysteine tRNA' for GO:0033414 to 'L-cysteine tRNA'
change definition of GO:0034450 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to an existing ubiquitin chain via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y-ubiquitin = Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to an existing ubiquitin chain via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y-ubiquitin = Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
rename GO:0035446 from 'cysteine-glucosaminylinositol ligase activity' to 'L-cysteine-glucosaminylinositol ligase activity'
change definition of GO:0035605 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group to a sulphur atom within a cysteine residue of a protein.' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group to a sulphur atom within a L-cysteine residue of a protein.'
change synonym 'cysteine to cysteine nitrosylation' for GO:0035606 to 'L-cysteine to L-cysteine nitrosylation'
change synonym 'cysteine-to-cysteine transnitrosylation' for GO:0035606 to 'L-cysteine-to-cysteine transnitrosylation'
change definition of GO:0035606 from 'Transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group from one cysteine residue to another.' to 'Transfer of a nitric oxide (NO) group from one L-cysteine residue to another.'
change synonym 'cysteine sulfinate binding' for GO:0036127 to 'L-cysteine sulfinate binding'
change definition of GO:0036127 from 'Binding to 3-sulfino-L-alanine (cysteine sulfinate).' to 'Binding to 3-sulfino-L-alanine (L-cysteine sulfinate).'
change definition of GO:0036346 from 'Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a L-cysteine stimulus. L-cysteine is an optically active form of cysteine having L-configuration.' to 'Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a L-cysteine stimulus. L-cysteine is an optically active form of L-cysteine having L-configuration.'
change definition of GO:0036526 from 'The removal of a sugar or dicarbonyl from a cysteine residue of a glycated protein.' to 'The removal of a sugar or dicarbonyl from a L-cysteine residue of a glycated protein.'
rename GO:0042883 from 'cysteine transport' to 'L-cysteine transport'
change definition of GO:0042883 from 'The directed movement of cysteine into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.' to 'The directed movement of L-cysteine into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore.'
rename GO:0043027 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase inhibitor activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0043027 from 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.' to 'Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.'
rename GO:0043028 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase regulator activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase regulator activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0043028 from 'Binds to and modulates the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.' to 'Binds to and modulates the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.'
rename GO:0043154 from 'negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0043154 from 'Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process.' to 'Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in the apoptotic process.'
change definition of GO:0043246 from 'Large, cysteine proteinase rich lysosomes, often found in the amastigote (an intracytoplasmic, nonflagellated form of the parasite) stage of Leishmania species belonging to the mexicana complex.' to 'Large, L-cysteine proteinase rich lysosomes, often found in the amastigote (an intracytoplasmic, nonflagellated form of the parasite) stage of Leishmania species belonging to the mexicana complex.'
rename GO:0043280 from 'positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0043280 from 'Any process that activates or increases the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.' to 'Any process that activates or increases the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process.'
rename GO:0043281 from 'regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0043281 from 'Any process that modulates the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis.' to 'Any process that modulates the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in apoptosis.'
change definition of GO:0043295 from 'Binding to glutathione; a tripeptide composed of the three amino acids cysteine, glutamic acid and glycine.' to 'Binding to glutathione; a tripeptide composed of the three amino acids L-cysteine, glutamic acid and glycine.'
change synonym 'DHHC cysteine-rich domain-containing protein ERF2' for GO:0043849 to 'DHHC L-cysteine-rich domain-containing protein ERF2'
change definition of GO:0044272 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and L-cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.'
change definition of GO:0044273 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of compounds that contain sulfur, such as the amino acids methionine and L-cysteine or the tripeptide glutathione.'
rename GO:0044526 from 'formation of peptidyl-cystine persulfide by sulphur transfer from free cysteine' to 'formation of peptidyl-cystine persulfide by sulphur transfer from free L-cysteine'
change definition of GO:0044526 from 'The modification of a peptidyl-cystine residue in a protein by the transfer of a sulfur atom from a free cysteine (in the process converting the free cysteine to alanine) to the peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-cysteine persulfide.' to 'The modification of a peptidyl-cystine residue in a protein by the transfer of a sulfur atom from a free L-cysteine (in the process converting the free L-cysteine to alanine) to the peptidyl-cysteine to form peptidyl-cysteine persulfide.'
change definition of GO:0044540 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: L-cystine + H2O = pyruvate + NH3 + thiocysteine. Thiocysteine is also known as cysteine persulfide.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: L-cystine + H2O = pyruvate + NH3 + thiocysteine. Thiocysteine is also known as L-cysteine persulfide.'
change definition of GO:0044875 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: gamma-glutamyl cysteine + hercynine + O2 = gamma-glutamyl-hercynyl cysteine sulfoxide + H2O.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: gamma-glutamyl L-cysteine + hercynine + O2 = gamma-glutamyl-hercynyl L-cysteine sulfoxide + H2O.'
change definition of GO:0046311 from 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.' to 'The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of prenylcysteine, 3-methyl-2-buten-1-yl-cysteine, a derivative of the amino acid L-cysteine formed by the covalent addition of a prenyl residue.'
change definition of GO:0046924 from 'The cross-linking of a cysteine residue to an L-phenylalanine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-phenylalanine.' to 'The cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to an L-phenylalanine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-L-phenylalanine.'
change definition of GO:0046925 from 'The cross-linking of a cysteine residue to an L-phenylalanine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-D-phenylalanine.' to 'The cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to an L-phenylalanine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-D-phenylalanine.'
change definition of GO:0046926 from 'The post-translational cross-linking of a cysteine residue to an L-threonine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-D-allo-threonine.' to 'The post-translational cross-linking of a L-cysteine residue to an L-threonine residue to form 2-(S-L-cysteinyl)-D-allo-threonine.'
rename GO:0047198 from 'cysteine-S-conjugate N-acetyltransferase activity' to 'L-cysteine-S-conjugate N-acetyltransferase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine sulfoxide lyase activity' for GO:0047654 to 'L-cysteine sulfoxide lyase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine sulphoxide lyase activity' for GO:0047654 to 'L-cysteine sulphoxide lyase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine sulfinic desulfinase activity' for GO:0047688 to 'L-cysteine sulfinic desulfinase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine aminotransferase activity' for GO:0047801 to 'L-cysteine aminotransferase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine transaminase activity' for GO:0047801 to 'L-cysteine transaminase activity'
rename GO:0047802 from 'cysteine-conjugate transaminase activity' to 'L-cysteine-conjugate transaminase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine conjugate aminotransferase activity' for GO:0047802 to 'L-cysteine conjugate aminotransferase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine-conjugate alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase (CAT-1)' for GO:0047802 to 'L-cysteine-conjugate alpha-ketoglutarate transaminase (CAT-1)'
rename GO:0047803 from 'cysteine lyase activity' to 'L-cysteine lyase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine (sulfite) lyase activity' for GO:0047803 to 'L-cysteine (sulfite) lyase activity'
rename GO:0047804 from 'cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyase activity' to 'L-cysteine-S-conjugate beta-lyase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine conjugate beta-lyase activity' for GO:0047804 to 'L-cysteine conjugate beta-lyase activity'
change synonym 'glutamine transaminase K/cysteine conjugate beta-lyase activity' for GO:0047804 to 'glutamine transaminase K/L-cysteine conjugate beta-lyase activity'
change synonym 'cysteine-S-conjugate b-lyase activity' for GO:0047804 to 'L-cysteine-S-conjugate b-lyase activity'
change definition of GO:0048108 from 'OBSOLETE. The formation of 4-amino-3-isothiazolinone cross-links by the formation of a sulfenylamide bond between cysteine or cysteine sulfenic acid, and the alpha-amido of the following residue.' to 'OBSOLETE. The formation of 4-amino-3-isothiazolinone cross-links by the formation of a sulfenylamide bond between L-cysteine or L-cysteine sulfenic acid, and the alpha-amido of the following residue.'
change definition of GO:0048109 from 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl cysteine-peptidyl serine cross-link through a process of forming first an intermediate cysteine sulfenic acid by peroxide oxidation, followed by condensation with the alpha-amido of the following serine residue and the release of water.' to 'OBSOLETE. The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a peptidyl L-cysteine-peptidyl serine cross-link through a process of forming first an intermediate L-cysteine sulfenic acid by peroxide oxidation, followed by condensation with the alpha-amido of the following serine residue and the release of water.'
change synonym 'alkyl cysteine lyase activity' for GO:0050271 to 'alkyl L-cysteine lyase activity'
change definition of GO:0050745 from 'OBSOLETE. The formation of a protein active site cross-link from the alpha-carboxyl carbon of residue N, a cysteine, to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue N+2, a glycine, coupled with the formation of a double bond to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue N+1 which loses one hydrogen, and the loss of a molecule of water.' to 'OBSOLETE. The formation of a protein active site cross-link from the alpha-carboxyl carbon of residue N, a L-cysteine, to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue N+2, a glycine, coupled with the formation of a double bond to the alpha-amino nitrogen of residue N+1 which loses one hydrogen, and the loss of a molecule of water.'
change definition of GO:0055131 from 'Binding to a C3HC4-type zinc finger domain of a protein. The C3HC4-type zinc finger is a variant of RING finger, is a cysteine-rich domain of 40 to 60 residues that coordinates two zinc ions, and has the consensus sequence: C-X2-C-X(9-39)-C-X(1-3)-H-X(2-3)-C-X2-C-X(4-48)-C-X2-C, where X is any amino acid. Many proteins containing a C3HC4-type RING finger play a key role in the ubiquitination pathway.' to 'Binding to a C3HC4-type zinc finger domain of a protein. The C3HC4-type zinc finger is a variant of RING finger, is a L-cysteine-rich domain of 40 to 60 residues that coordinates two zinc ions, and has the consensus sequence: C-X2-C-X(9-39)-C-X(1-3)-H-X(2-3)-C-X2-C-X(4-48)-C-X2-C, where X is any amino acid. Many proteins containing a C3HC4-type RING finger play a key role in the ubiquitination pathway.'
change definition of GO:0061483 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: cysteine sulfanate + GTP + IMP = sulfinylpropanyl adenylate + GDP + 3 H+ + phosphate.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: L-cysteine sulfanate + GTP + IMP = sulfinylpropanyl adenylate + GDP + 3 H+ + phosphate.'
change definition of GO:0061604 from 'Catalysis of the reaction: [Molybdopterin-synthase sulfur-carrier protein]-Gly-Gly-AMP + [cysteine desulfurase]-S-sulfanyl-L-cysteine = AMP [molybdopterin-synthase sulfur-carrier protein]-Gly-NH-CH(2)-C(O)SH + cysteine desulfurase.' to 'Catalysis of the reaction: [Molybdopterin-synthase sulfur-carrier protein]-Gly-Gly-AMP + [L-cysteine desulfurase]-S-sulfanyl-L-cysteine = AMP [molybdopterin-synthase sulfur-carrier protein]-Gly-NH-CH(2)-C(O)SH + L-cysteine desulfurase.'
change definition of GO:0061631 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to another via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y = Y-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of ubiquitin from one protein to another via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y = Y-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061650 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of a ubiquitin-like protein (ULP) from one protein to another molecule, usually another protein, via the reaction X-SCP + Y = Y-SCP + X, where both the X-SCP and Y-SCP linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of SCP and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of a ubiquitin-like protein (ULP) from one protein to another molecule, usually another protein, via the reaction X-SCP + Y = Y-SCP + X, where both the X-SCP and Y-SCP linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of SCP and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061651 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of Atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction X-Atg12 + Y = Y-Atg12 + X, where both the X-Atg12 and Y-Atg12 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of Atg12 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of Atg12 from one protein to another via the reaction X-Atg12 + Y = Y-Atg12 + X, where both the X-Atg12 and Y-Atg12 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of Atg12 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061652 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of FAT10 from one protein to another via the reaction X-FAT10 + Y = Y-FAT10 + X, where both the X-FAT10 and Y-FAT10 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of FAT10 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of FAT10 from one protein to another via the reaction X-FAT10 + Y = Y-FAT10 + X, where both the X-FAT10 and Y-FAT10 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of FAT10 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061653 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of ISG15 from one protein to another via the reaction X-ISG15 + Y = Y-ISG15 + X, where both the X-ISG15 and Y-ISG15 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of ISG15 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of ISG15 from one protein to another via the reaction X-ISG15 + Y = Y-ISG15 + X, where both the X-ISG15 and Y-ISG15 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of ISG15 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061654 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of NEDD8 from one protein to another via the reaction X-NEDD8 + Y = Y-NEDD8 + X, where both the X-NEDD8 and Y-NEDD8 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of NEDD8 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of NEDD8 from one protein to another via the reaction X-NEDD8 + Y = Y-NEDD8 + X, where both the X-NEDD8 and Y-NEDD8 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of NEDD8 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061655 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of Pup from one protein to another via the reaction X-Pup + Y = Y-Pup + X, where both the X-Pup and Y-Pup linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of Pup and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of Pup from one protein to another via the reaction X-Pup + Y = Y-Pup + X, where both the X-Pup and Y-Pup linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of Pup and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061656 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of SUMO from one protein to another via the reaction X-SUMO + Y = Y-SUMO + X, where both the X-SUMO and Y-SUMO linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of SUMO and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of SUMO from one protein to another via the reaction X-SUMO + Y = Y-SUMO + X, where both the X-SUMO and Y-SUMO linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of SUMO and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061657 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of UFM1 from one protein to another via the reaction X-UFM1 + Y = Y-UFM1 + X, where both the X-UFM1 and Y-UFM1 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of UFM1 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of UFM1 from one protein to another via the reaction X-UFM1 + Y = Y-UFM1 + X, where both the X-UFM1 and Y-UFM1 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of UFM1 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0061658 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of URM1 from one protein to another via the reaction X-URM1 + Y = Y-URM1 + X, where both the X-URM1 and Y-URM1 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of URM1 and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of URM1 from one protein to another via the reaction X-URM1 + Y = Y-URM1 + X, where both the X-URM1 and Y-URM1 linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal amino acid of URM1 and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change synonym 'cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity, acting on linear ubiquitin' for GO:0061815 to 'L-cysteine-type deubiquitinase activity, acting on linear ubiquitin'
rename GO:0070004 from 'cysteine-type exopeptidase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type exopeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0070004 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of C- or N-terminal peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of C- or N-terminal peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.'
rename GO:0070005 from 'cysteine-type aminopeptidase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type aminopeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0070005 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single N-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a single N-terminal amino acid residue from a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile.'
change definition of GO:0070147 from "The process of coupling cysteine to cysteinyl-tRNA in a mitochondrion, catalyzed by cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase. In tRNA aminoacylation, the amino acid is first activated by linkage to AMP and then transferred to either the 2'- or the 3'-hydroxyl group of the 3'-adenosine residue of the tRNA." to "The process of coupling L-cysteine to cysteinyl-tRNA in a mitochondrion, catalyzed by cysteinyl-tRNA synthetase. In tRNA aminoacylation, the amino acid is first activated by linkage to AMP and then transferred to either the 2'- or the 3'-hydroxyl group of the 3'-adenosine residue of the tRNA."
change definition of GO:0071116 from 'A protein complex that consists of an alpha6-beta1 integrin complex bound to CYR61, a cysteine-rich protein involved in angiogenesis.' to 'A protein complex that consists of an alpha6-beta1 integrin complex bound to CYR61, a L-cysteine-rich protein involved in angiogenesis.'
change definition of GO:0080120 from 'A series of specific posttranslational modifications to the CAAX box region of CAAX box proteins. CAAX box proteins are eukaryotic proteins that contain a CAAX motif where the C is a cysteine, the two A residues are aliphatic amino acids and the X can be one of several amino acids. The CAAX-box proteins undergo three sequential, enzymatic, post-translational modifications essential to their targeting: First, the proteins are prenylated by one of two prenyltransferases called farnesyltransferase and geranylgeranyltransferase-I. Prenylation results in the covalent attachment of either farnesyl or geranylgeranyl isoprenoid groups to the cysteine in the CAAX box motif. Prenylation is followed by proteolytic removal of the last three amino acids of the protein (AAX). Finally, the newly exposed carboxylate group of the isoprenylcysteine is methylated by an ER-associated prenyl-dependent carboxylmethyltransferase.' to 'A series of specific posttranslational modifications to the CAAX box region of CAAX box proteins. CAAX box proteins are eukaryotic proteins that contain a CAAX motif where the C is a L-cysteine, the two A residues are aliphatic amino acids and the X can be one of several amino acids. The CAAX-box proteins undergo three sequential, enzymatic, post-translational modifications essential to their targeting: First, the proteins are prenylated by one of two prenyltransferases called farnesyltransferase and geranylgeranyltransferase-I. Prenylation results in the covalent attachment of either farnesyl or geranylgeranyl isoprenoid groups to the L-cysteine in the CAAX box motif. Prenylation is followed by proteolytic removal of the last three amino acids of the protein (AAX). Finally, the newly exposed carboxylate group of the isoprenylcysteine is methylated by an ER-associated prenyl-dependent carboxylmethyltransferase.'
rename GO:0080145 from 'intracellular cysteine homeostasis' to 'intracellular L-cysteine homeostasis'
change synonym 'cellular cysteine homeostasis' for GO:0080145 to 'cellular L-cysteine homeostasis'
change synonym 'cysteine homeostasis' for GO:0080145 to 'L-cysteine homeostasis'
change definition of GO:0080145 from 'A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of a steady state level of cysteine within a cell.' to 'A homeostatic process involved in the maintenance of a steady state level of L-cysteine within a cell.'
change definition of GO:0090563 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + sugar(out) = protein cysteine + sugar phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + sugar(out) = protein L-cysteine + sugar phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.'
change definition of GO:0090564 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + glucose(out) = protein cysteine + glucose phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + glucose(out) = protein L-cysteine + glucose phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.'
change definition of GO:0090565 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + mannitol(out) = protein cysteine + mannitol phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + mannitol(out) = protein L-cysteine + mannitol phosphate(in). This differs from primary and secondary active transport in that the solute is modified during transport.'
change definition of GO:0090566 from "Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N,N'-diacetylchitobiose(out) = protein cysteine + N,N'-diacetylchitobiose phosphate(in)." to "Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N,N'-diacetylchitobiose(out) = protein L-cysteine + N,N'-diacetylchitobiose phosphate(in)."
change definition of GO:0090581 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + mannosylglycerate(out) = protein cysteine + mannosylglycerate phosphate(in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + mannosylglycerate(out) = protein L-cysteine + mannosylglycerate phosphate(in).'
change definition of GO:0090582 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + D-fructose(out) = protein cysteine + D-fructose-1-phosphate(in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + D-fructose(out) = protein L-cysteine + D-fructose-1-phosphate(in).'
change definition of GO:0090583 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + D-sorbitol(out) = protein cysteine + D-sorbitol-1-phosphate(in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + D-sorbitol(out) = protein L-cysteine + D-sorbitol-1-phosphate(in).'
change definition of GO:0090584 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + galactitol(out) = protein cysteine + galactitol-6-phosphate(in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + galactitol(out) = protein L-cysteine + galactitol-6-phosphate(in).'
change definition of GO:0090585 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + L-ascorbate(out) = protein cysteine + L-ascorbate-6-phosphate(in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + L-ascorbate(out) = protein L-cysteine + L-ascorbate-6-phosphate(in).'
change definition of GO:0090586 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N-acetylglucosamine (out) = protein cysteine + N-acetylglucosamine-6-phosphate (in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N-acetylglucosamine (out) = protein L-cysteine + N-acetylglucosamine-6-phosphate (in).'
change definition of GO:0090587 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + glucosamine (out) = protein cysteine + glucosamine-6-phosphate (in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + glucosamine (out) = protein L-cysteine + glucosamine-6-phosphate (in).'
change definition of GO:0090588 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N-acetylmuramate (out) = protein cysteine + N-acetylmuramate-6-phosphate (in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + N-acetylmuramate (out) = protein L-cysteine + N-acetylmuramate-6-phosphate (in).'
change definition of GO:0090589 from 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + trehalose (out) = protein cysteine + trehalose-6-phosphate (in).' to 'Catalysis of the PEP-dependent, phosphoryl transfer-driven transport of substances across a membrane. The transport happens by catalysis of the reaction: protein S-phosphocysteine + trehalose (out) = protein L-cysteine + trehalose-6-phosphate (in).'
rename GO:0097153 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:0097153 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the apoptotic process.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the apoptotic process.'
rename GO:0097199 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway'
change synonym 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway' for GO:0097199 to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway'
change definition of GO:0097199 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the apoptotic signaling pathway.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the apoptotic signaling pathway.'
rename GO:0097200 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis'
change definition of GO:0097200 from 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the execution phase of apoptosis.' to 'Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the execution phase of apoptosis.'
rename GO:0097202 from 'activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0097202 from 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase.' to 'Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme L-cysteine-type endopeptidase.'
rename GO:0097296 from 'activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway' to 'activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway'
change synonym 'activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway' for GO:0097296 to 'activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway'
change definition of GO:0097296 from 'Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic signaling pathway.' to 'Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic signaling pathway.'
rename GO:0097297 from 'obsolete activation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis' to 'obsolete activation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis'
change definition of GO:0097297 from 'OBSOLETE. Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the execution phase of apoptosis.' to 'OBSOLETE. Any process that initiates the activity of an inactive L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the execution phase of apoptosis.'
rename GO:0097299 from 'obsolete cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in plant-type hypersensitive response' to 'obsolete L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in plant-type hypersensitive response'
change definition of GO:0097299 from 'OBSOLETE. Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to plant-type hypersensitive response, the rapid, localized death of plant cells in response to invasion by a pathogen.' to 'OBSOLETE. Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a L-cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to plant-type hypersensitive response, the rapid, localized death of plant cells in response to invasion by a pathogen.'
rename GO:0097340 from 'inhibition of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'inhibition of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change synonym 'prevention of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' for GO:0097340 to 'prevention of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change definition of GO:0097340 from 'Any process that prevents the activation of an inactive cysteine-type endopeptidase.' to 'Any process that prevents the activation of an inactive L-cysteine-type endopeptidase.'
change definition of GO:0097655 from 'Binding to a member of the serpin protein family (serine protease inhibitors or classified inhibitor family I4). Serpins are a broadly distributed family of protease inhibitors that use a conformational change to inhibit target enzymes. They are central in controlling many important proteolytic cascades. The majority of serpins inhibit serine proteases, but serpins that inhibit caspases and papain-like cysteine proteases have also been identified. Rarely, serpins perform a non-inhibitory function; for example, several human serpins function as hormone transporters and certain serpins function as molecular chaperones or tumor suppressors.' to 'Binding to a member of the serpin protein family (serine protease inhibitors or classified inhibitor family I4). Serpins are a broadly distributed family of protease inhibitors that use a conformational change to inhibit target enzymes. They are central in controlling many important proteolytic cascades. The majority of serpins inhibit serine proteases, but serpins that inhibit caspases and papain-like L-cysteine proteases have also been identified. Rarely, serpins perform a non-inhibitory function; for example, several human serpins function as hormone transporters and certain serpins function as molecular chaperones or tumor suppressors.'
change definition of GO:0099128 from 'A protein complex consisting of frataxin, cysteine desulfurase, an accessory protein and a Fe-S scaffold protein. In human these genes correspond to FXN, NFS1, ISD11 and ISCU respectively. This complex assembles Fe-S clusters onto the scaffolding protein using the substrates ferrous iron, electrons, and sulfur from l-cysteine.' to 'A protein complex consisting of frataxin, L-cysteine desulfurase, an accessory protein and a Fe-S scaffold protein. In human these genes correspond to FXN, NFS1, ISD11 and ISCU respectively. This complex assembles Fe-S clusters onto the scaffolding protein using the substrates ferrous iron, electrons, and sulfur from l-cysteine.'
rename GO:0102275 from 'cysteine-S-conjugate N-malonyl transferase activity' to 'L-cysteine-S-conjugate N-malonyl transferase activity'
change synonym 'protein cysteine methylase activity' for GO:0106363 to 'protein L-cysteine methylase activity'
change synonym 'protein cysteine methyltransferase activity' for GO:0106363 to 'protein L-cysteine methyltransferase activity'
change definition of GO:0110135 from 'The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of the cysteine knot protein Norrin to a Frizzled 4 (Fzd4) family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state.' to 'The series of molecular signals initiated by binding of the L-cysteine knot protein Norrin to a Frizzled 4 (Fzd4) family receptor on the surface of the target cell and ending with a change in cell state.'
change definition of GO:0120123 from 'A protein complex responsible for the catalysis of the reaction: E1 + ubiquitin + ATP--> E1-ubiquitin + AMP + PPi, where the E1-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond between the C-terminal glycine of Ub and a sulfhydryl side group of an E1 cysteine residue. This is the first step in a cascade of reactions in which ubiquitin is ultimately added to a protein substrate.' to 'A protein complex responsible for the catalysis of the reaction: E1 + ubiquitin + ATP--> E1-ubiquitin + AMP + PPi, where the E1-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond between the C-terminal glycine of Ub and a sulfhydryl side group of an E1 L-cysteine residue. This is the first step in a cascade of reactions in which ubiquitin is ultimately added to a protein substrate.'
change definition of GO:0140082 from 'Isoenergetic transfer of SUMO from one protein to an existing ubiquitin chain via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y-ubiquitin = Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a cysteine residue.' to 'Isoenergetic transfer of SUMO from one protein to an existing ubiquitin chain via the reaction X-ubiquitin + Y-ubiquitin = Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin + X, where both the X-ubiquitin and Y-ubiquitin-ubiquitin linkages are thioester bonds between the C-terminal glycine of ubiquitin and a sulfhydryl side group of a L-cysteine residue.'
change definition of GO:0140439 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of a stearoyl (systematic name, octadecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: octadecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-octadecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of a stearoyl (systematic name, octadecanoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the L-cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: octadecanoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-octadecanoyl-L-cysteinyl-[protein].'
change definition of GO:0140440 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of an oleoyl (systematic name, (9Z)-octadecenoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: (9Z)-octadecenoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-L-cysteinyl-[protein].' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of an oleoyl (systematic name, (9Z)-octadecenoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the L-cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: (9Z)-octadecenoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-(9Z-octadecenoyl)-L-cysteinyl-[protein].'
change definition of GO:0140441 from 'Catalysis of the transfer of an arachidonoyl (systematic name, (5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-eicosatetraenoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: in the reaction: (5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-eicosatetraenoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-(5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z-eicosatetraenoyl)-L-cysteinyl-[protein].' to 'Catalysis of the transfer of an arachidonoyl (systematic name, (5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-eicosatetraenoyl) group to a sulfur atom on the L-cysteine of a protein molecule, in the reaction: in the reaction: (5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z)-eicosatetraenoyl-CoA + L-cysteinyl-[protein] = CoA + S-(5Z,8Z,11Z,14Z-eicosatetraenoyl)-L-cysteinyl-[protein].'
rename GO:0140608 from 'cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity' to 'L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activator activity'
change definition of GO:0140608 from 'Binds to and increases the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase.' to 'Binds to and increases the activity of a L-cysteine-type endopeptidase.'
rename GO:0140757 from 'cysteine-type deNEDDylase activity' to 'L-cysteine-type deNEDDylase activity'
change definition of GO:0160129 from 'Catalysis of the cross-link between a protein and a DNA abasic site, forming a thiazolidine linkage between a DNA ring-opened abasic site and the alpha-amino and sulfhydryl substituents of cysteine residue of the protein.' to 'Catalysis of the cross-link between a protein and a DNA abasic site, forming a thiazolidine linkage between a DNA ring-opened abasic site and the alpha-amino and sulfhydryl substituents of L-cysteine residue of the protein.'
rename GO:1901494 from 'regulation of cysteine metabolic process' to 'regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901494 to 'regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change definition of GO:1901494 from 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process.' to 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine metabolic process.'
rename GO:1901495 from 'negative regulation of cysteine metabolic process' to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'down regulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901495 to 'down regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'down regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901495 to 'down regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'down-regulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901495 to 'down-regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'down-regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901495 to 'down-regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'downregulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901495 to 'downregulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'downregulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901495 to 'downregulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'negative regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901495 to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'inhibition of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901495 to 'inhibition of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'inhibition of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901495 to 'inhibition of L-cysteine metabolism'
change definition of GO:1901495 from 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process.' to 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine metabolic process.'
rename GO:1901496 from 'positive regulation of cysteine metabolic process' to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'activation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901496 to 'activation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'activation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901496 to 'activation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'positive regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901496 to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'up regulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901496 to 'up regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'up regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901496 to 'up regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'up-regulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901496 to 'up-regulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'up-regulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901496 to 'up-regulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change synonym 'upregulation of cysteine metabolic process' for GO:1901496 to 'upregulation of L-cysteine metabolic process'
change synonym 'upregulation of cysteine metabolism' for GO:1901496 to 'upregulation of L-cysteine metabolism'
change definition of GO:1901496 from 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine metabolic process.' to 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine metabolic process.'
rename GO:1903712 from 'cysteine transmembrane transport' to 'L-cysteine transmembrane transport'
change definition of GO:1903712 from 'The directed movement of cysteine across a membrane.' to 'The directed movement of L-cysteine across a membrane.'
rename GO:1990001 from 'inhibition of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process' to 'inhibition of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic process'
change definition of GO:1990001 from 'Any process that prevents the activation of an inactive cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in an apoptotic process.' to 'Any process that prevents the activation of an inactive L-cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in an apoptotic process.'
change definition of GO:1990200 from 'A protein complex containing an alkanesulfonate monooxygenase subunit (SsuD tetramer in E.coli) and a flavin oxidoreductase subunit (SsuE dimer in E.coli). Involved in the utilization of alkanesulfonates as sulfur sources under conditions of sulfate or cysteine starvation.' to 'A protein complex containing an alkanesulfonate monooxygenase subunit (SsuD tetramer in E.coli) and a flavin oxidoreductase subunit (SsuE dimer in E.coli). Involved in the utilization of alkanesulfonates as sulfur sources under conditions of sulfate or L-cysteine starvation.'
change definition of GO:1990201 from 'A protein complex capable of alkanesulfonate monooxygenase activity. Involved in the utilization of alkanesulfonates as sulfur sources under conditions of sulfate or cysteine starvation, catalyzing the conversion of alkanesulfonates into aldehydes and sulfite. In E.coli the complex consists of a SsuD tetramer.' to 'A protein complex capable of alkanesulfonate monooxygenase activity. Involved in the utilization of alkanesulfonates as sulfur sources under conditions of sulfate or L-cysteine starvation, catalyzing the conversion of alkanesulfonates into aldehydes and sulfite. In E.coli the complex consists of a SsuD tetramer.'
change definition of GO:1990205 from 'A protein complex capable of catalyzing the conversion of taurine and alpha-ketoglutarate to sulfite, aminoacetaldehyde and succinate under sulfur or cysteine starvation conditions. Its expression is repressed by the presence of sulfate or cysteine. In E. coli it is a homodimer or homotetramer of the protein TauD.' to 'A protein complex capable of catalyzing the conversion of taurine and alpha-ketoglutarate to sulfite, aminoacetaldehyde and succinate under sulfur or L-cysteine starvation conditions. Its expression is repressed by the presence of sulfate or L-cysteine. In E. coli it is a homodimer or homotetramer of the protein TauD.'
change definition of GO:1990221 from 'A protein complex capable of cysteine desulfurase activity decomposing L-cysteine to L-alanine and sulfur. It belongs to a ubiquitous family of pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes. In E. coli it consists of a SufS dimer.' to 'A protein complex capable of L-cysteine desulfurase activity decomposing L-cysteine to L-alanine and sulfur. It belongs to a ubiquitous family of pyridoxal 5-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzymes. In E. coli it consists of a SufS dimer.'
change definition of GO:1990657 from 'A protein complex capable of stimulus-inducible nitric-oxide synthase activity. S-nitrosylates cysteine residues in target proteins, a principal mechanism of nitric oxide (NO)-mediated signal transduction. In mammals consists of NOS2, S100A8 and S100A9. S100A9 acts both as an adaptor linking NOS2 to its target and as a transnitrosylase that transfers the nitric oxide moiety from NOS2 to its target, via its own S-nitrosylated cysteine.' to 'A protein complex capable of stimulus-inducible nitric-oxide synthase activity. S-nitrosylates L-cysteine residues in target proteins, a principal mechanism of nitric oxide (NO)-mediated signal transduction. In mammals consists of NOS2, S100A8 and S100A9. S100A9 acts both as an adaptor linking NOS2 to its target and as a transnitrosylase that transfers the nitric oxide moiety from NOS2 to its target, via its own S-nitrosylated L-cysteine.'
change definition of GO:1990799 from 'The process in which a uridine residue at position 34 in the anticodon of a mitochondrial tRNA is post-transcriptionally thiolated at the C2 position. This process involves transfer of a sulfur from cysteine to position C2 by several steps.' to 'The process in which a uridine residue at position 34 in the anticodon of a mitochondrial tRNA is post-transcriptionally thiolated at the C2 position. This process involves transfer of a sulfur from L-cysteine to position C2 by several steps.'
rename GO:2000116 from 'regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change synonym 'regulation of lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' for GO:2000116 to 'regulation of lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change definition of GO:2000116 from 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.' to 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.'
rename GO:2000117 from 'negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change synonym 'negative regulation of lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' for GO:2000117 to 'negative regulation of lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change definition of GO:2000117 from 'Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.' to 'Any process that stops, prevents, or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.'
rename GO:2001056 from 'positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity' to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity'
change synonym 'positive regulation of lysosomal cysteine-type endopeptidase' for GO:2001056 to 'positive regulation of lysosomal L-cysteine-type endopeptidase'
change definition of GO:2001056 from 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.' to 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity.'
rename GO:2001267 from 'regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway' to 'regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway'
change synonym 'regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway' for GO:2001267 to 'regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway'
change definition of GO:2001267 from 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.' to 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.'
rename GO:2001268 from 'negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway' to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway'
change synonym 'negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway' for GO:2001268 to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway'
change definition of GO:2001268 from 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.' to 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.'
rename GO:2001269 from 'positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway' to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway'
change synonym 'positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway' for GO:2001269 to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signalling pathway'
change definition of GO:2001269 from 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.' to 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in apoptotic signaling pathway.'
rename GO:2001270 from 'regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis' to 'regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis'
change definition of GO:2001270 from 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.' to 'Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.'
rename GO:2001271 from 'negative regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis' to 'negative regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis'
change definition of GO:2001271 from 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.' to 'Any process that stops, prevents or reduces the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.'
rename GO:2001272 from 'positive regulation of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis' to 'positive regulation of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis'
change definition of GO:2001272 from 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.' to 'Any process that activates or increases the frequency, rate or extent of L-cysteine-type endopeptidase activity involved in execution phase of apoptosis.'
