def: "A large multisubunit complex which catalyzes protein degradation, found in eukaryotes, archaea and some bacteria. In eukaryotes, this complex consists of the barrel shaped proteasome core complex and one or two associated proteins or complexes that act in regulating entry into or exit from the core." [GOC:rb, Wikipedia:Proteasome]
def: "The sex chromosome present in both sexes of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex. Two copies of the X chromosome are present in each somatic cell of females and one copy is present in males." [GOC:mah, GOC:mr, ISBN:0582227089, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "The sex chromosome present in males of species in which the male is the heterogametic sex; generally, the sex chromosome that pairs with the X chromosome in the heterogametic sex. The Y chromosome is absent from the cells of females and present in one copy in the somatic cells of males." [GOC:mah, GOC:mr, ISBN:0582227089, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "A general transcription initiation factor activity that contributes to transcription start site selection and transcription initiation of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase III. Factors required for RNA polymerase III transcription initiation include TFIIIA, TFIIIB and TFIIIC. A general transcription initiation factor activity that contributes to transcription start site selection and transcription initiation of genes transcribed by RNA polymerase III. Factors required for RNA polymerase III transcription initiation include TFIIIA, TFIIIB and TFIIIC. RNA polymerase III transcribes genes encoding short RNAs, including tRNAs, 5S rRNA, U6 snRNA, the short ncRNA component of RNases P, the mitochondrial RNA processing (MRP) RNA, the signal recognition particle SRP RNA, and in higher eukaryotes a number of micro and other small RNAs, though there is some variability across species as to whether a given small noncoding RNA is transcribed by RNA polymerase II or RNA polymerase III." [GOC:txnOH-2018, PMID:12381659, PMID:17977614, PMID:20413673, PMID:27068803, Wikipedia:RNA_polymerase_III]
def: "OBSOLETE. Initiating the assembly of the RNA polymerase III pre-initiation complex by binding to a control sequence in the intragenic region. This allows to recruit TFIIIB to the DNA at a site centered approximately 26 base pairs upstream of the start site of transcription. For tRNA genes, TFIIIC first associates with DNA, and then recruits TFIIIB. For 5S rRNA genes, TFIIIA binds to DNA first, followed by TFIIIC, which then recruits TFIIIB." [GOC:txnOH-2018, PMID:12381659, PMID:23063749, PMID:27911719, Wikipedia:RNA_polymerase_III]
def: "A structure found in a male mammalian spermatocyte containing an unpaired X chromosome that has become densely heterochromatic, silenced and localized at the nuclear periphery." [GOC:hjd, GOC:mr, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of various polypeptides into the exocyst complex." [GOC:hjd, PMID:9700152, Wikipedia:Exocyst]
def: "The process that modulates the level of any of the various angiotensinogen proteolytic products in the blood. This occurs by the proteolytic cleavage of angiotensinogen, and its proteolytic products, to create a variety of active peptide hormones, such as angiotensin I and angiotensin II, as well as through the removal of these peptides from the circulation." [GOC:rl, PMID:21951628, Wikipedia:Angiotensin]
def: "Catalysis of the reaction: L-glutamine + 7-cyano-7-carbaguanine15 in tRNA + H2O = L-glutamate + archaeine15 in tRNA." [PMID:20129918, Wikipedia:Archaeosine_synthase]
def: "A transcription regulator activity that modulates the transcription of specific gene sets via binding to a DNA-bound DNA-binding transcription factor, either on its own or as part of a complex. Coregulators often act by altering chromatin structure and modifications. For example, one class of transcription coregulators modifies chromatin structure through covalent modification of histones. A second class remodels the conformation of chromatin in an ATP-dependent fashion. A third class modulates interactions of DNA-bound DNA-binding transcription factors with other transcription coregulators." [GOC:txnOH-2018, PMID:10213677, PMID:16858867, PMID:24203923, PMID:25957681, Wikipedia:Transcription_coregulator]
def: "Catalysis of the rearrangement of both intrachain and interchain disulfide bonds in proteins." [EC:5.3.4.1, GOC:vw, Wikipedia:Protein_disulfide-isomerase#Function]
def: "Catalysis of the cleavage of the C-O-P bond in the AP site created when DNA glycosylase removes a damaged base, involved in the DNA base excision repair pathway (BER)." [Wikipedia:AP_endonuclease]
def: "Catalysis of the reaction: E1 + ubiquitin + ATP--> E1-ubiquitin + AMP + PPi, where the E1-ubiquitin linkage is a thioester bond between the C-terminal glycine of Ub and a sulfhydryl side group of an E1 cysteine residue. This is the first step in a cascade of reactions in which ubiquitin is ultimately added to a protein substrate." [GOC:BioGRID, Wikipedia:Ubiquitin-activating_enzyme]
def: "Receiving an asialoglycoprotein, and delivering the asialoglycoprotein into the cell via endocytosis. An asialoglycoprotein is a plasma glycoproteins from which the terminal sialic acid residue on their complex carbohydrate groups has been removed. The asialoglycoprotein receptor recognizes the terminal galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine units of the asialoglycoprotein, the receptor-ligand complex is internalized and transported to a sorting organelle where disassociation occurs before the receptor is recycled to the cell membrane." [GOC:bf, PMID:11278827, PMID:7624395, Wikipedia:Asialoglycoprotein]
def: "OBSOLETE. Combining with an aryl hydrocarbon and transmitting the signal to initiate a change in cell activity. The aryl hydrocarbon receptor is a ligand-activated transcription factor which translocates to the nucleus to activate transcription upon ligand-binding." [GOC:ai, PMID:1325649, PMID:7493958, Wikipedia:Aryl_hydrocarbon_receptor]
def: "Combining with an extracellular or intracellular signal and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity or state as part of signal transduction." [GOC:go_curators, Wikipedia:Transmembrane_receptor]
def: "The binding by a cell-adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component, to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell and to initiate intracellular signaling. Cell adhesion receptors include integrins and cadherins." [GOC:BHF-UCL, Wikipedia:Cell_adhesion]
def: "Combining with an extracellular signal and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein; promotes the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric G-protein complex." [GOC:bf, http://www.iuphar-db.org, Wikipedia:GPCR]
def: "Combining with a cannabinoid to initiate a change in cell activity. Cannabinoids are a class of diverse chemical compounds that include the endocannabinoids and the phytocannabinoids." [GOC:dph, IUPHAR_GPCR:1279, Wikipedia:Cannabinoid]
def: "Combining with a chemokine, and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria." [GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, GOC:signaling, IUPHAR_GPCR:1280, PMID:12183377, PMID:8662823, Wikipedia:Chemokine]
def: "Combining with the amino acid gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA, 4-aminobutyrate) and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein; promotes the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric G-protein complex." [GOC:ai, GOC:bf, IUPHAR_RECEPTOR:1276, Wikipedia:GABAB_receptor]
def: "Combining with beta-endorphin, and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein. Beta-endorphin is a peptide, 31 amino acids long, resulting from processing of the precursor proopiomelanocortin (POMC)." [GOC:ai, GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Beta-endorphin]
def: "Combining with somatostatin to initiate a change in cell activity. Somatostatin is a peptide hormone that regulates the endocrine system by signaling via G protein-coupled somatostatin receptors. Somatostatin has two active forms produced by proteolytic cleavage: a 14 amino acid peptide (SST-14) and a 28 amino acid peptide (SST-28)." [GOC:ai, GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Somatostatin]
def: "Combining with a tachykinin neuropeptide and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein." [GOC:ai, GOC:bf, PMID:7639617, Wikipedia:Tachykinin]
def: "Combining with a nuclear export signal (NES) on a cargo to be transported, to mediate transport of a the cargo through the nuclear pore, from the nuclear lumen to the cytoplasm. The cargo can be either a RNA or a protein." [GOC:bf, GOC:mah, GOC:pg, GOC:vw, PMID:11743003, PMID:25802992, PMID:28713609, Wikipedia:Nuclear_transport]
def: "The action characteristic of gonadotropin hormone-releasing hormone (GnRH), any of a family of decapeptide amide hormones that are released by the hypothalamus in response to neural and/or chemical stimuli. In at least mammals, upon receptor binding, GnRH causes the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) by the anterior pituitary." [ISBN:0198506732, PMID:11026571, Wikipedia:Gonadotropin-releasing_hormone]
def: "Enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by a channel that opens when inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) has been bound by the channel complex or one of its constituent parts." [GOC:mah, GOC:signaling, PMID:8660280, Wikipedia:Inositol_trisphosphate_receptor]
def: "The rigid or semi-rigid envelope lying outside the cell membrane of plant, fungal, most prokaryotic cells and some protozoan parasites, maintaining their shape and protecting them from osmotic lysis. In plants it is made of cellulose and, often, lignin; in fungi it is composed largely of polysaccharides; in bacteria it is composed of peptidoglycan; in protozoan parasites such as Giardia species, it's made of carbohydrates and proteins." [GOC:giardia, ISBN:0198547684, PMID:15134259, Wikipedia:Microbial_cyst]
def: "An intracellular structure that can catalyze gamma-tubulin-dependent microtubule nucleation and that can anchor microtubules by interacting with their minus ends, plus ends or sides." [GOC:vw, ISBN:0815316194, PMID:17072892, PMID:17245416, Wikipedia:Microtubule_organizing_center]
def: "A cell-cell junction composed of pannexins or innexins and connexins, two different families of channel-forming proteins." [GOC:mah, GOC:mtg_muscle, ISBN:0815332181, PMID:22366062, Wikipedia:Gap_junction]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a carbohydrate into pyruvate, with the concomitant production of a small amount of ATP and the reduction of NAD(P) to NAD(P)H. Glycolysis begins with the metabolism of a carbohydrate to generate products that can enter the pathway and ends with the production of pyruvate. Pyruvate may be converted to acetyl-coenzyme A, ethanol, lactate, or other small molecules." [GOC:bf, GOC:dph, ISBN:0201090910, ISBN:0716720094, ISBN:0879010479, Wikipedia:Glycolysis]
def: "The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a set of components to form a steroid hormone receptor complex, an intracellular receptor that binds steroid hormones. The complex is often a dimer, and forms after the steroid has bound the receptor." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Steroid_hormone_receptor]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin. Porphyrins consists of a ring of four pyrrole nuclei linked each to the next at their alpha positions through a methine group." [GOC:jl, ISBN:0198506732, Wikipedia:Porphyrin#Natural_formation]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any member of a large group of derivatives or analogs of porphyrin. Porphyrin consists of a ring of four pyrrole nuclei linked each to the next at their alpha positions through a methine group." [GOC:jl, ISBN:0198506732, Wikipedia:Porphyrin#Natural_formation]
def: "Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process." [GOC:al, GOC:dph, GOC:jl, GOC:mtg_apoptosis, GOC:tb, PMID:14744432, PMID:18328827, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "The aggregation, arrangement and bonding together of a ligand-bound type II transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) receptor dimer with a type I TGF-beta receptor dimer, following ligand binding, to form a heterotetrameric TGF-beta receptor complex." [GOC:jl, Reactome:R-HSA-170840, Wikipedia:TGF_beta_signaling_pathway]
def: "A series of molecular signals that proceeds with an activated receptor promoting the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha-subunit of an associated heterotrimeric G-protein complex. The GTP-bound activated alpha-G-protein then dissociates from the beta- and gamma-subunits to further transmit the signal within the cell. The pathway begins with receptor-ligand interaction, or for basal GPCR signaling the pathway begins with the receptor activating its G protein in the absence of an agonist, and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription.  The pathway can start from the plasma membrane, Golgi or nuclear membrane." [GOC:bf, GOC:mah, PMID:16902576, PMID:24568158, Wikipedia:G_protein-coupled_receptor]
def: "The vesicular release of acetylcholine from a presynapse, across a chemical synapse, the subsequent activation of dopamine receptors at the postsynapse of a target cell (neuron, muscle, or secretory cell) and the effects of this activation on the postsynaptic membrane potential and ionic composition of the postsynaptic cytosol. This process encompasses both spontaneous and evoked release of neurotransmitter and all parts of synaptic vesicle exocytosis. Evoked transmission starts with the arrival of an action potential at the presynapse." [GOC:dos, Wikipedia:Cholinergic]
def: "The developmental process in which an organism senses the number of X chromosomes and autosomes in its genomic complement and responds to it." [GOC:isa_complete, GOC:mr, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "The function of a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria." [GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, PMID:12183377, Wikipedia:Chemokine]
def: "Catalysis of the transfer of sialic acid to an acceptor molecule, typically the terminal portions of the sialylated glycolipids (gangliosides) or to the N- or O-linked sugar chains of glycoproteins." [GOC:cjm, PMID:26192491, Wikipedia:Sialyltransferase]
def: "Any process that initiates the activity of the inactive enzyme cysteine-type endopeptidase in the context of an apoptotic process and is mediated by cytochrome c." [GOC:dph, GOC:jl, GOC:mtg_apoptosis, GOC:tb, PMID:14744432, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "OBSOLETE. Upregulation of the activity of a caspase, any of a group of cysteine proteases involved in apoptosis, by the addition of a phosphate group." [GOC:dph, GOC:jl, GOC:tb, PMID:14744432, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "Compensating for the two-fold variation in X-chromosome:autosome ratios between sexes by a global hyperactivation of all, or most of, the genes on the X-chromosome in the heterogametic sex, leading to a two-fold increase in gene expression from this chromosome. An example of this is found in Drosophila melanogaster." [GOC:jl, GOC:mr, ISBN:0140512888, PMID:11498577, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "Compensating for the two-fold variation in X-chromosome:autosome ratios between sexes by a global inactivation of all, or most of, the genes on one of the X-chromosomes in the XX sex." [GOC:jl, GOC:mr, GOC:pr, ISBN:0140512888, PMID:11498577, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "The introduction and uptake of foreign genetic material (DNA or RNA) into a cell, and often the expression of that genetic material." [ISBN:0716720094, Wikipedia:Transformation_(genetics)]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of an electromagnetic radiation stimulus. Electromagnetic radiation is a propagating wave in space with electric and magnetic components. These components oscillate at right angles to each other and to the direction of propagation." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Electromagnetic_radiation]
def: "The process in which nitrogen is taken from its relatively inert molecular form (N2) in the atmosphere and converted into nitrogen compounds useful for other chemical processes, such as ammonia, nitrate and nitrogen dioxide." [Wikipedia:Nitrogen_fixation]
def: "Shade avoidance is a set of responses that plants display when they are subjected to the shade of another plant. It often includes elongation, altered flowering time, increased apical dominance and altered partitioning of resources. Plants are able to distinguish between the shade of an inanimate object (e.g. a rock) and the shade of another plant due to the altered balance between red and far-red light in the shade of a plant; this balance between red and far-red light is perceived by phytochrome." [Wikipedia:Shade_avoidance]
def: "Enables the transmembrane transport of one proton (H+), driven by the hydrolysis of pyrophosphate, and generating a proton motive force." [GOC:mtg_transport, ISBN:0815340729, Wikipedia:Proton-pumping_pyrophosphatase]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of X-ray radiation. An X-ray is a form of electromagnetic radiation with a wavelength in the range of 10 nanometers to 100 picometers (corresponding to frequencies in the range 30 PHz to 3 EHz)." [GOC:sm, Wikipedia:X-ray]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus with pH > 7. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:go_curators, GOC:tb, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus with pH < 7. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:go_curators, GOC:tb, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "A series of reactions within the signal-receiving cell, mediated by the intracellular phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). Many cell surface receptor linked signaling pathways signal through PI3K to regulate numerous cellular functions." [GOC:ef, http://www.biocarta.com, PMID:22525052, Wikipedia:PI3K]
def: "An electron dense network of proteins within and adjacent to the postsynaptic membrane of an asymmetric, neuron-neuron synapse. Its major components include neurotransmitter receptors and the proteins that spatially and functionally organize them such as anchoring and scaffolding molecules, signaling enzymes and cytoskeletal components." [GOC:BHF, GOC:dos, GOC:ef, GOC:jid, GOC:pr, GOC:sjp, http://molneuro.kaist.ac.kr/psd, PMID:14532281, Wikipedia:Postsynaptic_density]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving tetrahydrocorphins, tetrapyrroles that combine the structural elements of both porphyrins and corrins." [Wikipedia:Morphine]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving an enzyme cofactor consisting of a tetrapyrrole structure containing nickel, such as the F-430 cofactor found in methyl-coenzyme M reductase." [GOC:mah, Wikipedia:Cofactor_F430]
def: "The process in which metarhodopsin is prevented from generating molecular signals. Activated rhodopsin (R*) is inactivated by a two-step process: first, R* is phosphorylated by rhodopsin kinase which lowers the activity of R*. Second, the protein arrestin binds to phosphorylated R* to de-activate it." [GOC:hb, Wikipedia:Visual_phototransduction]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of polyprenols, prenols with more than 4 isoprenoid residues, which may be all-trans, or a mixture of cis and trans." [GOC:go_curators, Wikipedia:Polyprenol]
def: "An RNA-protein complex localized to the X chromosome of males where it is required for the hyper-transcriptional activation of the X chromosome. An example of this is found in Drosophila melanogaster." [GOC:ma, GOC:mr, GOC:mtg_sensu, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "A protein complex, formed of one or more myosin heavy chains plus associated light chains and other proteins, that functions as a molecular motor; uses the energy of ATP hydrolysis to move actin filaments or to move vesicles or other cargo on fixed actin filaments; has magnesium-ATPase activity and binds actin. Myosin classes are distinguished based on sequence features of the motor, or head, domain, but also have distinct tail regions that are believed to bind specific cargoes." [GOC:mah, Wikipedia:Myosin]
def: "A myosin complex containing two class II myosin heavy chains, two myosin essential light chains and two myosin regulatory light chains. Also known as classical myosin or conventional myosin, the myosin II class includes the major muscle myosin of vertebrate and invertebrate muscle, and is characterized by alpha-helical coiled coil tails that self assemble to form a variety of filament structures." [Wikipedia:Myosin]
def: "The controlled self-propelled movement of a cell from one site to a destination guided by molecular cues. Cell migration is a central process in the development and maintenance of multicellular organisms." [GOC:cjm, GOC:dph, GOC:ems, GOC:pf, Wikipedia:Cell_migration]
def: "A nuclear DNA-directed RNA polymerase complex containing an RNA polymerase II core enzyme as well as additional proteins and transcription factor complexes, that are capable of promoter recognition and transcription initiation from an RNA polymerase II promoter in vivo. These additional components may include general transcription factor complexes TFIIA, TFIID, TFIIE, TFIIF, or TFIIH, as well as Mediator, SWI/SNF, GCN5, or SRBs and confer the ability to recognize promoters." [GOC:jl, GOC:krc, PMID:16858867, Wikipedia:Rna_polymerase_ii]
def: "The function of binding to a sigma factor and stopping, preventing or reducing the rate of its transcriptional activity." [GOC:jl, GOC:txnOH, Wikipedia:Anti-sigma_factors]
def: "Catalysis of the hydrolysis of a substrate by a catalytic mechanism that involves a catalytic triad consisting of a serine nucleophile that is activated by a proton relay involving an acidic residue (e.g. aspartate or glutamate) and a basic residue (usually histidine)." [Wikipedia:Serine_hydrolase]
def: "The protein coat that surrounds the infective nucleic acid in some virus particles; the subunits are arranged to form an icosahedron, a solid with 20 faces and 12 vertices. Icosahedral capsids have 12 pentamers plus 10(T-1) hexamers, where T is the triangulation number. Tobacco satellite necrosis virus has such a capsid structure." [GOC:bm, ISBN:0198506732, ISBN:071673706X, VZ:885, Wikipedia:Capsid]
def: "The lipid bilayer of a virion that surrounds the protein capsid. May also contain glycoproteins." [GOC:bf, GOC:bm, GOC:jl, ISBN:0781718325, Wikipedia:Viral_envelope]
def: "A nucleoprotein complex containing viral genetic material and associated viral and host proteins, which is capable of inserting a viral genome into a host genome." [ISBN:0781718325, PMID:16712776, Wikipedia:Pre-integration_complex]
def: "Any intracellular signal transduction in which the signal is passed on within the cell via a second messenger; a small molecule or ion that can be quickly generated or released from intracellular stores, and can diffuse within the cell. Second-messenger signaling includes production or release of the second messenger, and effectors downstream of the second messenger that further transmit the signal within the cell." [GOC:signaling, ISBN:0815316194, PMID:15221855, Wikipedia:Second_messenger_system]
def: "A reproduction process that creates a new organism by combining the genetic material of two gametes, which may come from two organisms or from a single organism, in the case of self-fertilizing hermaphrodites, e.g. C. elegans, or self-fertilization in plants. It occurs both in eukaryotes and prokaryotes: in multicellular eukaryotic organisms, an individual is created anew; in prokaryotes, the initial cell has additional or transformed genetic material. In a process called genetic recombination, genetic material (DNA) originating from two gametes join up so that homologous sequences are aligned with each other, and this is followed by exchange of genetic information. After the new recombinant chromosome is formed, it is passed on to progeny." [GOC:jl, GOC:kmv, GOC:krc, GOC:tb, ISBN:0387520546, Wikipedia:Sexual_reproduction]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a chemokine. Chemokines are a family of small chemotactic cytokines; their name is derived from their ability to induce directed chemotaxis in nearby responsive cells. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria." [GOC:ai, GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, PMID:12183377, Wikipedia:Chemokine]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with an interferon, a protein produced by the immune systems of many animals in response to a challenge by a foreign agent." [PMID:9607096, Wikipedia:Interferon]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the medullary reticular formation over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The medullary reticular formation is a series of brain nuclei located in the medulla oblongata." [GO_REF:0000021, GOC:cjm, GOC:cls, GOC:curators, GOC:dgh, GOC:dph, GOC:jid, http://www.brainspan.org, Wikipedia:Rhombencephalon]
def: "Any of the granules, approximately 32 nm x 48 nm and consisting of highly aggregated phycobiliproteins, that are attached in arrays to the external face of a thylakoid membrane in algae of the phyla Cyanophyta and Rhodophyta, where they function as light-harvesting devices in photosynthesis. Excitation energy in the phycobilisome flows in the sequence: phycoerythrin, phycocyanin, allophycocyanin before passing to the antenna chlorophyll of photosystem II." [GOC:jl, PMID:11734882, Wikipedia:Phycobilisome]
def: "A slime layer is an easily removed, diffuse, unorganized layer of extracellular material that surrounds a cell. Specifically this consists mostly of exopolysaccharides, glycoproteins, and glycolipids." [GOC:mlg, Wikipedia:Slime_layer]
def: "A vesicle with a coat formed of the COPII coat complex proteins. The COPII coat complex is formed by the Sec23p/Sec24p and the Sec13p/Sec31p heterodimers. COPII-associated vesicles transport proteins from the rough endoplasmic reticulum to the Golgi apparatus (anterograde transport)." [PMID:11252894, PMID:17499046, PMID:22160157, PMID:8004676, Wikipedia:COPII]
def: "A myosin complex containing one or more class IV myosin heavy chains and associated light chains; myosin IV is relatively uncharacterized, but is predicted to have a single motor domain, one IQ motif and a tail with a Myosin Tail Homology (myTH4) domain homologous to that in the tails of myosins VII and XV." [Wikipedia:Myosin]
def: "A myosin complex containing a dimer of class V myosin heavy chains and associated light chains; involved in intracellular transport. Myosin V is a dimeric molecule consisting of conserved motor domains followed by 6 IQ motifs which bind specific light chains and calmodulin. The tail domain is important for cellular localization and cargo binding and can be divided into an alpha-helical coiled coil region and a C-terminal globular region." [Wikipedia:Myosin]
def: "A cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation, rounded shape, and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion. Blebs are formed during apoptosis and other cellular processes, including cell locomotion, cell division, and as a result of physical or chemical stresses." [GOC:mtg_apoptosis, PMID:12083798, PMID:16624291, Wikipedia:Bleb_(cell_biology)]
def: "The assembly of a bleb, a cell extension caused by localized decoupling of the cytoskeleton from the plasma membrane and characterized by rapid formation, rounded shape, and scarcity of organelles within the protrusion. Plasma membrane blebbing occurs during apoptosis and other cellular processes, including cell locomotion, cell division, and as a result of physical or chemical stresses." [GOC:mah, GOC:mtg_apoptosis, PMID:12083798, PMID:16624291, Wikipedia:Bleb_(cell_biology)]
def: "The appearance of a chemokine due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels. All chemokines possess a number of conserved cysteine residues involved in intramolecular disulfide bond formation. Some chemokines are considered pro-inflammatory and can be induced during an immune response to recruit cells of the immune system to a site of infection, while others are considered homeostatic and are involved in controlling the migration of cells during normal processes of tissue maintenance or development. Chemokines are found in all vertebrates, some viruses and some bacteria." [GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, ISBN:0198506732, PMID:12183377, Wikipedia:Chemokine]
def: "The appearance of any member of the interleukin-17 family of cytokines due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels." [GOC:mah, GOC:rv, Wikipedia:Interleukin_17]
def: "A membrane-bounded storage granule found in cells of the aleurone layer in plants; contains either a protein matrix, protein-carbohydrate bodies and/or globoids. Aleurone grains are formed by the vacuole, rough endoplasmic reticulum and dictyosomes." [PMID:22452734, Wikipedia:Aleurone]
def: "The directed movement of iron ions from outside of a cell into the cytoplasmic compartment. This may occur via transport across the plasma membrane or via endocytosis." [PMID:18622392, PMID:23192658, Wikipedia:Human_iron_metabolism]
def: "Behavior directed towards society, or taking place between members of the same species. Occurs predominantly, or only, in individuals that are part of a group." [GOC:jh2, PMID:12848939, Wikipedia:Social_behavior]
def: "Progression of the endocrine system over time, from its formation to a mature structure. The endocrine system is a system of hormones and ductless glands, where the glands release hormones directly into the blood, lymph or other intercellular fluid, and the hormones circulate within the body to affect distant organs. The major glands that make up the human endocrine system are the hypothalamus, pituitary, thyroid, parathryoids, adrenals, pineal body, and the reproductive glands which include the ovaries and testes." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Development_of_the_endocrine_system]
def: "Progression of the exocrine system over time, from its formation to a mature structure. The exocrine system is a system of hormones and glands, where the glands secrete straight to a target site via ducts or tubes. The human exocrine system includes the salivary glands, sweat glands and many glands of the digestive system." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Exocrine_gland]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving a thioester, a compound of general formula RC(=O)SR' in which the linking oxygen in an ester is replaced by a sulfur atom. They are the product of esterification between a carboxylic acid and a thiol." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Thioester]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of exposure to a stilbenoid. Stilbenoids are secondary products of heartwood formation in trees that can act as phytoalexins. Stilbenoids are hydroxylated derivatives of stilbene. They belong to the family of phenylpropanoids and share most of their biosynthesis pathway with chalcones." [GOC:yaf, Wikipedia:Stilbenoid]
def: "Combining with L-DOPA to initiate a change in cell activity. L-DOPA is the modified amino acid (2S)-2-amino-3-(3,4-dihydroxyphenyl) propanoic acid, and is the precursor to dopamine, norepinephrine (noradrenaline) and epinephrine." [PMID:18828673, Wikipedia:L-DOPA]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the adrenal cortex over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The adrenal cortex is located at the periphery of the adrenal gland and controls glucose and electrolyte metabolism, response to stress and sexual development through the production of different classes of steroid hormones (glucocorticoids, mineralocorticoids and androgens)." [PMID:12185666, PMID:21115154, Wikipedia:Adrenal_cortex]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a nail over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A nail is a horn-like envelope covering the outer end of a finger or toe, and consists of the nail plate, the nail matrix and the nail bed below it, and the grooves surrounding it." [GOC:bf, ISBN:0323025781, UBERON:0001705, Wikipedia:Nail_(anatomy)]
def: "The process, occurring in the embryo, by which the anatomical structures of a nail plate are generated and organized. The nail plate is the hard and translucent portion of the nail, composed of keratin, and serves to protect the tips of digits." [GOC:BHF, GOC:vk, ISBN:0323025781, PMID:11369996, UBERON:0008198, Wikipedia:Nail_(anatomy)]
def: "The progression of the aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. An aorta is an artery that carries blood from the heart to other parts of the body." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0000062, UBERON:0000947, Wikipedia:Aorta]
def: "The progression of the ascending aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. The ascending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two-pass circulatory system that lies between the heart and the arch of aorta. In a two-pass circulatory system blood passes twice through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0002570, UBERON:0001496, Wikipedia:Ascending_aorta]
def: "The progression of the descending aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. The descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two-pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries. In a two-pass circulatory system blood passes twice through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0002571, UBERON:0001514, Wikipedia:Descending_aorta]
def: "The progression of the dorsal aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. The dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, UBERON:0005805, Wikipedia:Aorta, ZFA:0000014]
def: "The progression of the ventral aorta over time, from its initial formation to the mature structure. The ventral aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries de-oxygenated blood from the heart to the gills. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, UBERON:0003085, Wikipedia:Aorta, ZFA:0000604]
def: "The process in which the anatomical structures of an aorta are generated and organized. An aorta is an artery that carries blood from the heart to other parts of the body." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0000062, UBERON:0000947, Wikipedia:Aorta]
def: "The process in which the anatomical structures of the ascending aorta are generated and organized. The ascending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two-pass circulatory system that lies between the heart and the arch of aorta. In a two-pass circulatory system blood passes twice through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0002570, UBERON:0001496, Wikipedia:Ascending_aorta]
def: "The process in which the anatomical structures of the descending aorta are generated and organized. The descending aorta is the portion of the aorta in a two-pass circulatory system from the arch of aorta to the point where it divides into the common iliac arteries. In a two-pass circulatory system blood passes twice through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, MA:0002571, UBERON:0001514, Wikipedia:Descending_aorta]
def: "The process in which the anatomical structures of the dorsal aorta are generated and organized. The dorsal aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries oxygenated blood from the gills to the rest of the body. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, UBERON:0005805, Wikipedia:Aorta, ZFA:0000014]
def: "The process in which the anatomical structures of the ventral aorta are generated and organized. The ventral aorta is a blood vessel in a single-pass circulatory system that carries de-oxygenated blood from the heart to the gills. In a single-pass circulatory system blood passes once through the heart to supply the body once." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, UBERON:0003085, Wikipedia:Aorta, ZFA:0000604]
def: "The morphogenetic process in which the foramen ovale closes after birth, to prevent blood flow between the right and left atria. In the fetal heart, the foramen ovale allows blood to enter the left atrium from the right atrium. Closure of the foramen ovale after birth stops this blood flow." [GOC:BHF, GOC:vk, PMID:19762328, UBERON:0004754, Wikipedia:Foramen_ovale_(heart)]
def: "A heterodimeric transcription factor complex composed of proteins from the c-Fos, c-Jun, activating transcription factor (ATF) or JDP families. The subunits contain a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) domain that is essential for dimerization and DNA binding. Jun-Fos heterodimers bind preferentially to a heptamer consensus sequence (TPA responsive element (TRE)), whereas Jun-ATF dimers bind the cyclic AMP responsive element (CRE) to regulate transcription of target genes." [GOC:bf, GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, PMID:20060892, PMID:9069263, Wikipedia:AP-1_transcription_factor]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the deltoid tuberosity over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The deltoid tuberosity is the region on the shaft of the humerus to which the deltoid muscle attaches. The deltoid tuberosity develops through endochondral ossification in a two-phase process; an initiating tendon-dependent phase, and a muscle-dependent growth phase." [GOC:yaf, PMID:17567668, UBERON:0002498, Wikipedia:Deltoid_tuberosity]
def: "The process, occurring in the embryo, in which the anatomical structures of a skeletal limb joint are generated and organized. A skeletal limb joint is the connecting structure between the bones of a limb." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Joint]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a kringle domain. Kringle domains are protein domains that fold into large loops stabilized by 3 disulfide linkages, and are important in protein-protein interactions with blood coagulation factors." [GOC:yaf, Wikipedia:Kringle_domain]
def: "A digestive process in which food, usually grass or hay, is swallowed into a multi-compartmented stomach, regurgitated, chewed again, and swallowed again." [GOC:maf, Wikipedia:Rumination]
def: "The regulated release of a melanocyte-stimulating hormone, any of a group of peptide hormones that are produced by cells in the intermediate lobe of the pituitary gland, and stimulate the production of melanin to increase pigmentation." [GOC:cjm, Wikipedia:Melanocyte-stimulating_hormone]
def: "The regulated release of oxytocin, a cyclic nonapeptide hormone with amino acid sequence CYIQNCPLG that also acts as a neurotransmitter in the brain, from a cell. Oxytocin is the principal uterine-contracting and milk-ejecting hormone of the posterior pituitary, and together with the neuropeptide vasopressin, is believed to influence social cognition and behavior." [GOC:cjm, Wikipedia:Oxytocin]
def: "A reversible switch of a cell from one cell type or form to another, at a frequency above the expected frequency for somatic mutations. Phenotypic switching involves changes in cell morphology and altered gene expression patterns. For example, Candida albicans switches from white cells to opaque cells for sexual mating. Phenotypic switching also occurs in multicellular organisms; smooth muscle cells (SMCs) exhibit phenotypic transitions to allow rapid adaption to fluctuating environmental cues." [GOC:bf, GOC:di, PMID:12443899, PMID:22406749, PMID:8456504, Wikipedia:Phenotypic_switching]
def: "A reversible switch of a cell from one phenotype to another that occurs upon infection of a host or host cell. For example, Candida albicans switches from a unicellular form to an invasive multicellular filamentous form upon infection of host tissue. Phenotypic switching begins with changes in cell morphology and altered gene expression patterns and ends when the morphology of a population of cells has reverted back to the default state, accompanied by altered expression patterns." [GOC:di, PMID:16696644, Wikipedia:Phenotypic_switching]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a neutral pH (pH close to 7) stimulus. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:di, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "The process in which a group of unicellular organisms grow in a threadlike, filamentous shape in response to a pH stimulus. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:di, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of deprivation of vitamin B1 (also called thiamin and thiamine)." [GOC:al, Wikipedia:Thiamine]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a neutral pH (pH close to 7) stimulus. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:di, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a menadione stimulus. Menadione (also called vitamin K3) is a naphthoquinone having a methyl substituent at the 2-position." [GOC:al, Wikipedia:Menadione]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a methylphenidate stimulus." [GOC:hp, Wikipedia:Methylphenidate]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a gemcitabine stimulus. Gemcitabine is a 2'-deoxycytidine having geminal fluoro substituents in the 2'-position, and is used as a drug in the treatment of various carcinomas." [GOC:hp, Wikipedia:Gemcitabine]
def: "The regulated release of ghrelin from a cell. Ghrelin is a 28 amino acid hunger-stimulating peptide hormone." [GOC:cjm, PMID:14610293, Wikipedia:Ghrelin]
def: "The regulated release of pancreatic polypeptide (PP) from a cell. Pancreatic polypeptide is a 36 amino acid polypeptide secreted by islets of Langerhans cells in the pancreas." [GOC:cjm, PMID:12730894, Wikipedia:Pancreatic_polypeptide]
def: "Any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1 (VEGFR-1) located on the surface of the receiving cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, GOC:uh, Wikipedia:FLT1, Wikipedia:VEGF_receptors]
def: "Any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) located on the surface of the receiving cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, GOC:uh, PMID:12967471, Wikipedia:Kinase_insert_domain_receptor, Wikipedia:VEGF_receptors]
def: "Any series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of an extracellular ligand to a vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 (VEGFR-3) located on the surface of the receiving cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, GOC:uh, Wikipedia:VEGF_receptors, Wikipedia:VEGFR3]
def: "Combining with placental growth factor (PlGF) and transmitting the signal across the plasma membrane to initiate a change in cell activity." [GOC:uh, PMID:12871269, PMID:7929268, Wikipedia:Placental_growth_factor]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a ligand to the receptor Fas on the surface of the cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Fas is a death domain-containing member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor (TNFR) superfamily." [GOC:nhn, PMID:12040174, Wikipedia:Fas_receptor]
def: "The attachment of a lymphocyte to an endothelial cell of a high endothelial venule (HEV) via adhesion molecules. A HEV cell is an endothelial cell that is cuboidal, expresses leukocyte-specific receptors, and allows for passage of lymphocytes into bloodstream." [CL:0000542, CL:0002652, GOC:nhn, PMID:19339990, PMID:7679710, Wikipedia:High_endothelial_venules]
def: "The process in which a post-anal tail is generated and organized. A post-anal tail is a muscular region of the body that extends posterior to the anus. The post-anal tail may aid locomotion and balance." [GOC:bf, GOC:kmv, Wikipedia:Chordate]
def: "The specific behavior of an organism that combines cognitive functions and physical movement. For example, driving a car, throwing a ball, or playing a musical instrument." [GOC:nhn, GOC:pr, PMID:17159989, Wikipedia:Psychomotor_learning]
def: "A form of mutualism between a fungus and the roots of a vascular plant, where hyphae of the fungus penetrate the plant cell wall and invaginate its cell membrane. Once inside, the fungus forms highly branched structures for nutrient exchange with the plant called arbuscules. Aids in the acquisition by the plant of nutrients such as phosphorus from the soil." [GOC:sk, Wikipedia:Arbuscular_mycorrhiza]
def: "Any of the smallest contractile units of a myofibril (striated muscle fiber)." [Wikipedia:Myofilament]
def: "A protein-DNA complex that forms at the origin of replication during the initial step of DNA replication and allows the origin to become competent, or 'licensed', for replication." [GOC:bf, GOC:bhm, GOC:jh2, Wikipedia:Pre-replication_complex]
def: "A protein-DNA complex that forms at the bacterial oriC during the initial step of DNA replication and allows the origin to become competent, or 'licensed', for replication." [GOC:bf, GOC:bhm, GOC:jh2, PMID:19833870, PMID:21035377, Wikipedia:Pre-replication_complex]
def: "Combining with the fat-cell specific hormone leptin and transmitting the signal from one side of the membrane to the other to initiate a change in cell activity." [GOC:bf, GOC:signaling, PMID:9102398, Wikipedia:Leptin_receptor]
def: "Combining with the sphingolipid sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein." [GOC:bf, PMID:12728273, Wikipedia:S1PR1]
def: "Combining with an enkephalin, and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein. A enkephalin is a pentapeptide (Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Met or Tyr-Gly-Gly-Phe-Leu) involved in regulating nociception in the body." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Enkephalin]
def: "Combining with a dynorphin peptide, and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein. Dynorphin is any opioid peptide that is generated by cleavage of the precursor protein prodynorphin." [GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Dynorphin]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the Fc portion of an immunoglobulin to an Fc receptor on the surface of a signal-receiving cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. The Fc portion of an immunoglobulin is its C-terminal constant region." [GOC:phg, Wikipedia:Fc_receptor]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with choriogonadotropin hormone, a heterodimer, with an alpha subunit identical to that of luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), and a unique beta subunit." [GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, Wikipedia:Human_chorionic_gonadotropin]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by binding of a ligand to a member of the ERBB family of receptor tyrosine kinases on the surface of a cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:jc, PMID:16460914, Wikipedia:ErbB]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the cytokine macrophage colony-stimulating factor (M-CSF) to a receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:signaling, GOC:uh, PMID:12138890, Wikipedia:Macrophage_colony-stimulating_factor]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the chemokine CXCL12 to a receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:nhn, GOC:signaling, Wikipedia:Stromal_cell-derived_factor-1]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of the C-C chemokine CCL2 to a receptor on the surface of a cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:nhn, GOC:signaling, Wikipedia:CCL2]
def: "The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of the peptide somatostatin (SST) binding to a somatostatin receptor (SSTR). The pathway proceeds with the receptor transmitting the signal to a heterotrimeric G-protein complex and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, GOC:nhn, GOC:signaling, PMID:18006219, Wikipedia:Somatostatin]
def: "The series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a cannabinoid binding to a cell surface receptor. The pathway proceeds with the receptor transmitting the signal to a heterotrimeric G-protein complex and ends with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Cannabinoids are a class of diverse chemical compounds that include the endocannabinoids and the phytocannabinoids." [GOC:bf, GOC:jc, GOC:signaling, Wikipedia:Cannabinoid]
def: "A series of molecular signals generated as a consequence of a the C5a component of the complement pathway binding to a complement receptor, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process. C5a is a peptide derived from the C5 complement factor." [GOC:jc, PMID:15313431, Wikipedia:Complement_component_5a]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a neurotrophin to a receptor on the surface of a target cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription. Neurotrophins are a family of secreted growth factors that induce the survival, development, and function of neurons." [GOC:bf, GOC:jc, GOC:signaling, PMID:17466268, Wikipedia:Neurotrophin]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of nerve growth factor (NGF) to a receptor on the surface of the target cell, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, PMID:11520933, Wikipedia:Nerve_growth_factor]
def: "Combining with an extracellular bile acid and transmitting the signal across the membrane by activating an associated G-protein; promotes the exchange of GDP for GTP on the alpha subunit of a heterotrimeric G-protein complex." [GOC:bf, PMID:12524422, Wikipedia:G_protein-coupled_bile_acid_receptor]
def: "Combining with a pathogen-associated molecular pattern (PAMP), a structure conserved among microbial species to initiate an innate immune response." [GOC:ar, GOC:bf, Wikipedia:Pattern_recognition_receptor]
def: "A protein complex that contains at least TOR (target of rapamycin) in complex with other signaling components. Mediates the phosphorylation and activation of downstream signaling components including PKB (AKT) or S6K." [Wikipedia:MTORC1, Wikipedia:MTORC2]
def: "A process of unidirectional viral DNA replication that takes place on a circular DNA to rapidly produce numerous copies of the viral genome. Involves creating a nick in one strand of the circular DNA molecule at the origin of replication. DNA is then synthesized by DNA polymerase. Using the non-nicked strand as a template, replication proceeds around the circular DNA molecule, displacing the nicked strand as single-stranded DNA." [GOC:bf, GOC:jl, VZ:915, Wikipedia:Rolling_circle_replication]
def: "A cytoplasmic viral factory that is electron dense due to high levels of viral RNA. Produced by nucleo-cytoplasmic large DNA viruses (NCLDV) like Poxviridae, Asfarviridae and Iridoviridae, and dsRNA viruses like Reoviridae." [VZ:1951, Wikipedia:Viroplasm]
def: "A cellular process that results in the biosynthesis of constituent macromolecules, assembly, and arrangement of constituent parts of ribosome subunits; includes transport to the sites of protein synthesis." [GOC:ma, PMID:26404467, Wikipedia:Ribosome_biogenesis]
def: "Compensating for the two-fold variation in X:autosome chromosome ratios between sexes by an inactivation of a proportion of genes on both of the X chromosomes of the XX sex, leading to a decrease, of half, of the levels of gene expression from these chromosomes. An example of this process is found in Caenorhabditis elegans." [GOC:jl, GOC:mr, PMID:11102361, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "A dimer consisting of an alpha and a beta-subunit that imports proteins with an NLS into the nucleus through a nuclear pore." [GOC:jl, PMID:9323123, PMID:9323134, Wikipedia:Importin]
def: "A membrane-bounded organelle, specialized for the storage and secretion of various substances (surfactant phospholipids, glycoproteins and acid phosphates) which are arranged in the form of tightly packed, concentric, membrane sheets or lamellae. Has some similar properties to, but is distinct from, a lysosome." [GOC:cjm, GOC:jl, PMID:12243725, Wikipedia:Lamellar_granule]
def: "Any process in which an organism enters and maintains a period of dormancy, similar to hibernation, but that occurs during the summer. It insulates against heat to prevent the harmful effects of the season." [GOC:jl, PMID:12443930, Wikipedia:Estivation]
def: "A membrane-enclosed sac that takes up most of the volume of a mature plant cell. Functions include storage, separation of toxic byproducts, and cell growth determination." [ISBN:9780815341116, Wikipedia:Vacuole]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of glycol, a diol in which the two hydroxy groups are on different carbon atoms, usually but not necessarily adjacent." [Wikipedia:Ethylene_glycol]
def: "The directed movement of acridine (10-azaanthracene), a heterocyclic ring compound found in crude coal-tar anthracene, into, out of or within a cell, or between cells, by means of some agent such as a transporter or pore." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Acridine]
def: "Binds to and stops, prevents or reduces the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process." [GOC:jl, GOC:mtg_apoptosis, PMID:14744432, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "Binds to and modulates the activity of a cysteine-type endopeptidase involved in the apoptotic process." [GOC:jl, GOC:mtg_apoptosis, PMID:14744432, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "The hardening, enlarging and rising of the penis which often occurs in the sexually aroused male and enables sexual intercourse. Achieved by increased inflow of blood into the vessels of erectile tissue, and decreased outflow." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Penile_erection]
def: "An electrically insulating fatty layer that surrounds the axons of many neurons. It is an outgrowth of glial cells: Schwann cells supply the myelin for peripheral neurons while oligodendrocytes supply it to those of the central nervous system." [GOC:cjm, GOC:jl, NIF_Subcellular:sao593830697, Wikipedia:Myelin]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a peptide hormone stimulus. A peptide hormone is any of a class of peptides that are secreted into the blood stream and have endocrine functions in living animals." [PMID:11027914, PMID:15134857, Wikipedia:Peptide_hormone]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a corticotropin-releasing hormone stimulus. Corticotropin-releasing hormone is a peptide hormone involved in the stress response." [PMID:11027914, PMID:15134857, Wikipedia:Corticotropin-releasing_hormone]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving any oxoacid; an oxoacid is a compound which contains oxygen, at least one other element, and at least one hydrogen bound to oxygen, and which produces a conjugate base by loss of positive hydrogen ion(s) (hydrons)." [Wikipedia:Oxyacid]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving acetoacetic acid, 3-oxobutanoic acid; the empirical formula is C4H6O3 or CH3COCH2COOH." [Wikipedia:Acetoacetic_acid]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkane, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula CnH2n+2, as carried out by individual cells." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkane]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alkane, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula CnH2n+2." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkane]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an alkane, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having the general formula CnH2n+2." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkane]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkene, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon-carbon double bond and the general formula CnH2n, as carried out by individual cells." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkene]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alkene, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon-carbon double bond and the general formula CnH2n." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkene]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an alkene, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon having one carbon-carbon double bond and the general formula CnH2n." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Alkene]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving an alkyne, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon (compound composed only of carbon and hydrogen) having a carbon-carbon triple bond and the general formula CnH2n-2, as carried out by individual cells." [GOC:jl, GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Alkyne]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of an alkyne, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon (compound composed only of carbon and hydrogen) having a carbon-carbon triple bond and the general formula CnH2n-2." [GOC:jl, GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Alkyne]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of an alkyne, any acyclic branched or unbranched hydrocarbon (compound composed only of carbon and hydrogen) having a carbon-carbon triple bond and the general formula CnH2n-2." [GOC:jl, GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Alkyne]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the sporangium over time, from its formation to the mature structure. A sporangium is a structure producing and containing spores." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Sporagium]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of bisphenol A, 4,4'-(propane-2,2-diyl)diphenol, a synthetic, aromatic organic compound used as a monomer in the manufacture of polycarbonate plastic and in the manufacture of epoxy resins." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Bisphenol_A]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving puromycin, 3'-deoxy-N,N-dimethyl-3'-(O-methyl-L-tyrosinamido)adenosine, an aminonucleoside antibiotic that is a potent inhibitor of translation; produced by the bacterium Streptomyces alboniger." [GOC:jl, PMID:8226694, Wikipedia:Puromycin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of puromycin, an aminonucleoside antibiotic that is a potent inhibitor of translation; produced by the bacterium Streptomyces alboniger." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Puromycin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving tetracycline, (4S,4aS,5aS,6S,12aS)-4-(dimethylamino)-3,6,10,12,12a-pentahydroxy-6-methyl-1,11-dioxo-1,4,4a,5,5a,6,11,12a-octahydrotetracene-2-carboxamide, a broad-spectrum antibiotic produced by streptomyces bacteria that blocks binding of aminoacyl tRNA to the ribosomes of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms (and those of organelles)." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Tetracycline]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of tetracycline, (4S,4aS,5aS,6S,12aS)-4-(dimethylamino)-3,6,10,12,12a-pentahydroxy-6-methyl-1,11-dioxo-1,4,4a,5,5a,6,11,12a-octahydrotetracene-2-carboxamide, a broad-spectrum antibiotic produced by streptomyces bacteria that blocks binding of aminoacyl tRNA to the ribosomes of both Gram-positive and Gram-negative organisms (and those of organelles)." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Tetracycline]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving a cephalosporin, any of large class of tetracyclic triterpene broad-spectrum antibiotics similar both chemically and in their mode of action to penicillin, first isolated from the culture filtrates of mediterranean fungus acremonium (cephalosporium acremonium), and effective against gram-positive bacteria." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Cephalosporin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a cephalosporin, any of large class of tetracyclic triterpene broad-spectrum antibiotics similar both chemically and in their mode of action to penicillin, first isolated from the culture filtrates of mediterranean fungus acremonium (cephalosporium acremonium), and effective against gram-positive bacteria." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Cephalosporin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving linoleic acid, an unsaturated omega-6 fatty acid that has the molecular formula C18H32O2." [Wikipedia:Linoleic_Acid]
def: "OBSOLETE. A small pore in the outer wall of a mycelial spore through which the germ tube exits upon germination. It can be apical or eccentric in its location." [Wikipedia:Germ_pore]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving monoterpenes, terpenes with a C10 structure." [Wikipedia:Monoterpene]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of monoterpenes, terpenes with a C10 structure." [Wikipedia:Monoterpene]
def: "A subcomplex of DNA polymerase III composed of the epsilon subunit which has proofreading activity, and the theta subunit which enhances the epsilon subunit's proofreading activity." [PMID:16973612, Wikipedia:Pol_III]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with suramin, a naphthalenesulfonic acid compound which is used in the treatment of diseases caused by trypanosomes and worms." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Suramin]
def: "An increase in the epigenetic methylation of cytosine and adenosine residues in a CpG island in DNA. CpG islands are genomic regions that contain a high frequency of the CG dinucleotide and are often associated with the transcription start site of genes." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Cpg_island]
def: "An decrease in the epigenetic methylation of cytosine and adenosine residues in a CpG island in DNA. CpG islands are genomic regions that contain a high frequency of the CG dinucleotide and are often associated with the transcription start site of genes." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Cpg_island]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a Rel Homology Domain (RHD) of a protein. The RHD is found in a family of eukaryotic transcription factors, which includes NF-kappaB, Dorsal, Relish and NFAT." [InterPro:IPR011539, Wikipedia:Rel_homology_domain]
def: "The slowing of metabolic processes to very low levels in order to conserve energy as a part of hibernation." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Hibernation]
def: "The tooth development process in which the teeth enter the mouth and become visible." [Wikipedia:Tooth_eruption]
def: "The process by which a virus causes the death of daughter cells which do not contain its genes after host cell division, by a mechanism of post-segregational killing (PSK). The extrachromosomal viral DNA consist of two genes; the product of the second is long lived and toxic, while the product of the first is short lived and antagonizes the lethal action of the toxin. Daughter cells that do not contain the viral extrachromosomal element are killed by the long lived toxin, while daughter cells that do contain the viral extrachromosomal element are protected by the action of the short lived antitoxin it encodes." [GOC:bf, GOC:jl, PMID:11222604, Wikipedia:Toxin-antitoxin_system]
def: "A type of ovulation cycle, which occurs in most mammalian therian females, where the endometrium is resorbed if pregnancy does not occur." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Estrous_cycle]
def: "The directed movement of azoles, heterocyclic compounds found in many biologically important substances, across a lipid bilayer, across a membrane." [GOC:go_curators, ISBN:3527307206, Wikipedia:Azole]
def: "Enables the transfer of a solute or solutes from one side of a membrane to the other according to the reaction: H+(out) + azole(in) = H+(in) + azole(out). Azoles are heterocyclic compounds found in many biologically important substances." [GOC:ai, ISBN:3527307206, Wikipedia:Azole]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving fatty acids with a chain length of less than C6." [Wikipedia:Fatty_acid_metabolism]
def: "A series of molecular signals initiated by the binding of a neurotrophin to a receptor on the surface of the target cell where the receptor possesses tyrosine kinase activity, and ending with regulation of a downstream cellular process, e.g. transcription." [GOC:bf, GOC:ceb, GOC:jc, GOC:signaling, PMID:12065629, Wikipedia:Trk_receptor]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pain stimulus. Pain stimuli cause activation of nociceptors, peripheral receptors for pain, include receptors which are sensitive to painful mechanical stimuli, extreme heat or cold, and chemical stimuli." [GOC:jid, PMID:10203867, PMID:12723742, PMID:12843304, Wikipedia:Pain]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of the compound eye over time, from its formation to the mature structure. The compound eye is an organ of sight that contains multiple repeating units, often arranged hexagonally. Each unit has its own lens and photoreceptor cell(s) and can generate either a single pixelated image or multiple images, per eye." [GOC:jid, GOC:mtg_sensu, Wikipedia:Eye]
def: "Combining with advanced glycation end-products and transmitting the signal to initiate a change in cell activity. Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) form from a series of chemical reactions after an initial glycation event (a non-enzymatic reaction between reducing sugars and free amino groups of proteins)." [GOC:signaling, PMID:12453678, PMID:12707408, PMID:7592757, PMID:9224812, Wikipedia:RAGE_(receptor)]
def: "Transient adhesive interactions between leukocytes and endothelial cells lining blood vessels. Carbohydrates on circulating leukocytes bind selectins on the vessel wall causing the leukocytes to slow down and roll along the inner surface of the vessel wall. During this rolling motion, transitory bonds are formed and broken between selectins and their ligands. Typically the first step in cellular extravasation (the movement of leukocytes out of the circulatory system, towards the site of tissue damage or infection)." [GOC:bf, ISBN:0781735149, PMID:14680625, PMID:14708592, PMID:7507411, PMID:8600538, Wikipedia:Leukocyte_extravasation]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive a temperature stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Thermoception in larger animals is mainly done in the skin; mammals have at least two types of sensor, for detecting heat (temperatures above body temperature) and cold (temperatures below body temperature)." [GOC:ai, Wikipedia:Thermoception]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive an electrical stimulus, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Many fish possess an electroception sense; for example, the electric eel uses low voltage pulses of electricity for navigation and prey location." [GOC:ai, PMID:10210663, Wikipedia:Electroreception]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive a stimulus relating to a magnetic field, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Stimuli may be chemical, mechanical or electrical and interpreting these stimuli allows an organism to determine the orientation of a magnetic field. Magnetoreception also involves the perception of light; birds cannot orient without the presence of short wavelength (blue/green) light." [GOC:ai, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "Echolocation is the method used by some animals (e.g. bats, dolphins and some whales) to determine the location of something by measuring the time it takes for an echo to return from it. These animals emit sound waves and listen for the echo, calculating the distance to the object from the time lapse between sound emission and the echo returning." [PMID:16005275, Wikipedia:Animal_echolocation]
def: "The series of events that contribute to magnetoception in which an electrical stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal. The stimulus is in the form of an induced electric field resulting from movement in a magnetic field." [GOC:ai, GOC:dos, GOC:dph, GOC:tb, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive a chemical stimulus relating to a magnetic field, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. It is believed that organisms such as birds and salamanders use a 'chemical compass': chemical reactions that involve transitions between different spin states can be influenced by magnetic fields and by detecting the different product ratios, these organisms can perceive the direction of the magnetic field. The mechanism by which this is detected is not certain but it may also involve light stimuli." [GOC:ai, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive an electrical stimulus relating to a magnetic field, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. Movement in a magnetic field results in an induced electric field, which can be perceived by organisms such as elasmobranch fish." [GOC:ai, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "The series of events required for an organism to receive a mechanical stimulus relating to a magnetic field, convert it to a molecular signal, and recognize and characterize the signal. A magnetic field exerts a torque on a ferromagnetic material (e.g. magnetite) or on a material with diamagnetic anisotropy; organisms that can detect this torque can use it to determine the orientation of the magnetic field." [GOC:ai, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "The series of events involved in magnetoception in which a light stimulus is received and converted into a molecular signal. Downstream processing of the light information in addition to other sensory data allows organisms to perceive the orientation of a magnetic field." [GOC:ai, GOC:dos, PMID:15886990, Wikipedia:Magnetoception]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a 2 iron, 2 sulfur (2Fe-2S) cluster; this cluster consists of two iron atoms, with two inorganic sulfur atoms found between the irons and acting as bridging ligands." [GOC:ai, PMID:15952888, Wikipedia:Iron-sulfur_cluster]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a 3 iron, 4 sulfur (3Fe-4S) cluster; this cluster consists of three iron atoms, with the inorganic sulfur atoms found between the irons and acting as bridging ligands. It is essentially a 4Fe-4S cluster with one iron missing." [GOC:ai, PMID:15952888, Wikipedia:Iron-sulfur_cluster]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a 4 iron, 4 sulfur (4Fe-4S) cluster; this cluster consists of four iron atoms, with the inorganic sulfur atoms found between the irons and acting as bridging ligands." [GOC:ai, PMID:15952888, Wikipedia:Iron-sulfur_cluster]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a hydrostatic pressure stimulus. Hydrostatic pressure is the force acting on an object in a system where the fluid is at rest (as opposed to moving). The weight of the fluid above the object creates pressure on it." [Wikipedia:Hydrostatic_pressure]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of fatty acids with a chain length of less than C6." [Wikipedia:Fatty_acid_metabolism]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving medium-chain fatty acids, any fatty acid with a chain length of between C6 and C12." [Wikipedia:Fatty_acid_metabolisms]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of any fatty acid with a chain length of between C6 and C12." [Wikipedia:Fatty_acid_metabolism]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of any fatty acid with a chain length of between C6 and C12." [Wikipedia:Fatty_acid_metabolism]
def: "General adaptation syndrome is the set of changes in various organ systems of the body, especially the pituitary-endocrine system, in response to a wide range of strong external stimuli, both physiological and psychological. It is described as having three stages: alarm reaction, where the body detects the external stimulus; adaptation, where the body engages defensive countermeasures against the stressor; and exhaustion, where the body begins to run out of defenses." [PMID:14847556, Wikipedia:General_adaptation_syndrome]
def: "The process in which the potential difference across the mitochondrial membrane is reduced from its steady state level." [Wikipedia:Depolarization, Wikipedia:Mitochondrion]
def: "The process in which membrane potential decreases with respect to its steady-state potential, usually from negative potential to a more positive potential. For example, the initial depolarization during the rising phase of an action potential is in the direction from the negative steady-state resting potential towards the positive membrane potential that will be the peak of the action potential." [GOC:dh, Wikipedia:Depolarization]
def: "The addition of a sulfate group to a molecule." [Wikipedia:Sulfation]
def: "The uptake of L-glutamate by neurons or glial cells. This process leads to inactivation and recycling of neurotransmitters." [ISBN:0123668387, Wikipedia:Glutamate_transporter]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving phytoalexins, any of a range of substances produced by plants as part of their defense response." [Wikipedia:Phytoalexin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of phytoalexins, any of a range of substances produced by plants as part of their defense response." [Wikipedia:Phytoalexin]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving ergothioneine, a naturally occurring metabolite of histidine with antioxidant properties." [Wikipedia:Ergothioneine]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of ergothioneine, a naturally occurring metabolite of histidine with antioxidant properties." [Wikipedia:Ergothioneine]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of ergothioneine, a naturally occurring metabolite of histidine with antioxidant properties." [Wikipedia:Ergothioneine]
def: "Catalysis of the hydrolysis of linkages in beta-D-glucans; beta-glucans are polysaccharides of D-glucose monomers linked by beta-glycosidic bonds." [Wikipedia:Beta-glucan]
def: "Catalysis of the reaction: chitobiose + phosphate = N-acetyl-D-glucosamine + N-acetyl-alpha-D-glucosamine 1-phosphate. This reaction is the phosphorolysis of chitobiose, (GlcNAc)2, a dimer of beta-(1->4) linked glucosamine units." [GOC:mengo_curators, PMID:15274915, Wikipedia:chitobiose]
def: "The process in which the structure of the smooth muscle tissue surrounding the aorta is generated and organized. An aorta is an artery that carries blood from the heart to other parts of the body." [GOC:bf, GOC:dgh, GOC:dph, Wikipedia:Aorta]
def: "Combining with a nuclear import signal (NIS) on a cargo to be transported, to mediate transport of the cargo through the nuclear pore, from the cytoplasm to the nuclear lumen. The cargo can be either a RNA or a protein." [GOC:dph, GOC:pg, GOC:vw, PMID:28713609, Wikipedia:Nuclear_transport]
def: "Any process in which an organism acquires a novel neuromuscular action or movement as the result of experience." [GOC:bf, GOC:PARL, Wikipedia:Motor_learning]
def: "Catalysis of the hydrolysis of an isopeptide bond. An isopeptide bond is an amide linkage between a carboxyl group of one amino acid and an amino group of another amino acid in which at least one of these groups is not on the a-carbon of one of the amino acids (for example, the link between an epsilon-amino group of a lysine molecule to a carboxyl group on a second amino acid is an isopeptide bond)." [GOC:mah, Wikipedia:Isopeptidase]
def: "The protein complexes that form the electron transport system (the respiratory chain), associated with a cell membrane, usually the plasma membrane (in prokaryotes) or the inner mitochondrial membrane (on eukaryotes). The respiratory chain complexes transfer electrons from an electron donor to an electron acceptor and are associated with a proton pump to create a transmembrane electrochemical gradient." [GOC:ecd, GOC:mah, ISBN:0198547684, Wikipedia:Respirasome]
def: "A dimeric positive transcription elongation factor complex b that comprises a cyclin-dependent kinase containing the catalytic subunit, Cdk9, and a regulatory subunit, cyclin T." [GOC:mah, GOC:vw, PMID:16721054, PMID:19328067, Wikipedia:P-TEFb]
def: "An extracellular region part that consists of a protective layer of mucus secreted by epithelial cells lining tubular organs of the body such as the colon or secreted into fluids such as saliva. Mucus is a viscous slimy secretion consisting of mucins (i.e. highly glycosylated mucin proteins) and various inorganic salts dissolved in water, with suspended epithelial cells and leukocytes." [GOC:krc, GOC:mah, GOC:mm2, PMID:18806221, PMID:19432394, Wikipedia:Mucin]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a stimulus by the chemical structure of the anion portion of the dissociated acid (rather than the acid acting as a proton donor). The acid chemical may be in gaseous, liquid or solid form." [GOC:go_curators, GOC:mah, Wikipedia:Acid]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:mah, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus with pH < 7. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:go_curators, GOC:mah, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a pH stimulus with pH > 7. pH is a measure of the acidity or basicity of an aqueous solution." [GOC:go_curators, GOC:mah, Wikipedia:PH]
def: "A nitrogen compound metabolic process that contributes to the nitrogen cycle. The nitrogen cycle is a series of metabolic pathways by which nitrogen is converted between various forms and redox states; it encompasses pathways in which nitrogen is acted upon directly, such as nitrification, denitrification, nitrogen fixation, and mineralization." [GOC:mah, PMID:16675690, Wikipedia:Nitrogen_cycle]
def: "The process in which melanin is produced in the appressorium of the symbiont. Melanization of the appressorium increases turgor pressure in the appressorium." [GOC:pamgo_curators, Wikipedia:Appressorium]
def: "The assembly by the symbiont of a neck-like structure for the purpose of penetration into its host organism. The neck-like structure connects haustorium mother cell and haustorium. The host is defined as the larger of the organisms involved in a symbiotic interaction." [GOC:pamgo_curators, Wikipedia:Haustorium]
def: "Any process in which an organism disseminates its spores." [Wikipedia:Spore]
def: "A symbiont process in which a molecule secreted by the symbiont activates a resistance gene-dependent defense response signaling pathway in the plant host, in order to activate a hypersensitive response to induce necrosis. In the plant, this process involves the direct or indirect recognition of the symbiont effector protein for example through plant resistance receptor or R proteins (or R genes)." [PMID:16497589, PMID:22241993, PMID:23411798, PMID:27641772, Wikipedia:Effector-triggered_immunity]
def: "A G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway that contributes to a decrease in frequency or rate of heart contraction. Binding of acetylcholine to a G protein-coupled (muscarinic) receptor on the surface of the signal-receiving cell results in the alpha subunit of a coupled G-protein binding to GTP. This results in the separation of the beta-gamma complex from the alpha subunit. Both the alpha subunit, and the beta-gamma complex can continue to signal to bring about membrane hyperpolarization and a reduction in heart rate." [GOC:BHF, GOC:mtg_cardiac_conduct_nov11, Wikipedia:G_protein-gated_ion_channel]
def: "A G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor signaling pathway that contributes to a decrease in frequency or rate of heart contraction through activation of the IKACh potassium channel. Binding of acetylcholine to a G protein-coupled acetylcholine receptor (muscarinic receptor) on the surface of the signal-receiving cell results in liberation of the G-beta/gamma complex from the alpha subunit. The G-beta/gamma complex binds directly to the inward-rectifying potassium channel IKACh. Once the ion channel is activated, potassium ions (K+) flow out of the cell and cause it to hyperpolarize. In its hyperpolarized state, action potentials cannot be fired as quickly as possible, which slows the heart rate." [GOC:BHF, GOC:mtg_cardiac_conduct_nov11, Wikipedia:G_protein-gated_ion_channel]
def: "The process whereby a relatively unspecialized cell acquires specialized features of an amniotic stem cell. An amniotic stem cell is a mesenchymal stem cell extracted from amniotic fluid. Amniotic stem cells are able to differentiate into various tissue types such as skin, cartilage, cardiac tissue, nerves, muscle, and bone." [CL:0002639, GOC:yaf, PMID:20942606, Wikipedia:Amniotic_stem_cells]
def: "The appearance of interleukin-17F due to biosynthesis or secretion following a cellular stimulus, resulting in an increase in its intracellular or extracellular levels." [GOC:rv, Wikipedia:Interleukin_17]
def: "The process in which any suture between cranial and/or facial bones is generated and organized." [GOC:pr, GOC:sl, Wikipedia:Cranial_sutures, Wikipedia:Head_and_neck_anatomy#Musculoskeletal_system]
def: "The process in which the frontonasal suture, between frontal and nasal bones, is generated and organized." [GOC:pr, GOC:sl, PMID:12416537, Wikipedia:Cranial_sutures, Wikipedia:Head_and_neck_anatomy#Musculoskeletal_system]
def: "The process in which any suture between facial bones is generated and organized." [GOC:pr, GOC:sl, Wikipedia:Cranial_sutures, Wikipedia:Head_and_neck_anatomy#Musculoskeletal_system]
def: "The process in which the nasal suture is generated and organized." [GOC:pr, GOC:sl, Wikipedia:Cranial_sutures, Wikipedia:Head_and_neck_anatomy#Musculoskeletal_system]
def: "The action of a molecule that contributes to the structural integrity of albumen (also called egg white). Albumen is the clear liquid contained within an egg and consists of water and proteins, among which are ovomucin and ovomucoid. It protects the egg yolk and provides additional nutrition for the growth of the embryo." [GOC:jj, Wikipedia:Albumen]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with supercoiled DNA. For example, during replication and transcription, template DNA is negatively supercoiled in the receding downstream DNA and positively supercoiled in the approaching downstream DNA." [GOC:pr, GOC:rph, PMID:20723754, PMID:21345933, Wikipedia:DNA_supercoil]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a scaffold protein. Scaffold proteins are crucial regulators of many key signaling pathways. Although not strictly defined in function, they are known to interact and/or bind with multiple members of a signaling pathway, tethering them into complexes." [GOC:BHF, GOC:sjp, PMID:10433269, Wikipedia:Scaffold_protein]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a MADS box domain, a protein domain that encodes the DNA-binding MADS domain. The MADS domain binds to DNA sequences of high similarity to the motif CC[A/T]6GG termed the CArG-box. MADS-domain proteins are generally transcription factors. The length of the MADS-box is in the range of 168 to 180 base pairs." [GOC:yaf, InterPro:IPR002100, PMID:18296735, Wikipedia:MADS-box]
def: "The multiplication or reproduction of lens epithelial cells, resulting in the expansion of a cell population. Lens epithelial cells make up the lens epithelium, which is located in the anterior portion of the lens between the lens capsule and the lens fibers and is a simple cuboidal epithelium. The epithelial cells of the lens regulate most of the homeostatic functions of the lens such as osmolarity and liquid volume. The lens epithelial cells also serve as the progenitors for new lens fibers. The lens epithelium constantly lays down fibers in the embryo, fetus, infant, and adult, and continues to lay down fibers for lifelong growth." [CL:0002224, GOC:yaf, PMID:18423449, Wikipedia:Lens_%28anatomy%29#Lens_epithelium]
def: "A vesicle containing parts of a dying cell. Apoptotic bodies can be formed during the execution phase of the apoptotic process, when the cell's cytoskeleton breaks up and causes the membrane to bulge outward. These bulges may separate from the cell, taking a portion of cytoplasm with them, to become apoptotic bodies. These are then engulfed by phagocytic cells, and their components recycled. Apoptotic bodies may range in size from 0.8 to 5um." [GOC:mtg_apoptosis, GOC:vesicles, PMID:15242875, PMID:24223256, Wikipedia:Apoptosis, Wikipedia:Bleb_(cell_biology)]
def: "The reflex process in which the arrectores pilorum (hair follicle) muscles contract and cause the hair to stand erect." [GOC:BHF, PMID:21335239, Wikipedia:Pilomotor_reflex]
def: "Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the apoptotic signaling pathway." [GOC:mtg_apoptosis, PMID:11717445, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "Catalysis of the hydrolysis of internal, alpha-peptide bonds in a polypeptide chain by a mechanism in which the sulfhydryl group of a cysteine residue at the active center acts as a nucleophile, and contributing to the execution phase of apoptosis." [GOC:mtg_apoptosis, Wikipedia:Caspase]
def: "A specialized secretory organelle found in type II pneumocytes and involved in the synthesis, secretion, and reutilization of pulmonary surfactant." [GOC:cjm, Wikipedia:Lamellar_granule]
def: "A specialized secretory organelle found in keratinocytes and involved in the formation of an impermeable, lipid-containing membrane that serves as a water barrier and is required for correct skin barrier function." [GOC:cjm, Wikipedia:Lamellar_granule]
def: "Secretion of substances from peritubular capillaries into the renal tubules to be incorporated subsequently into the urine. Substances that are secreted include organic anions, ammonia, potassium and drugs." [GOC:rph, PMID:10049739, Wikipedia:Renal_secretion#Secretion]
def: "A subcellular filamentary structure where CTP synthase is compartmentalized in a range of organisms including bacteria, yeast, fruit fly, rat and human." [GOC:mag, PMID:20513629, PMID:21930098, Wikipedia:CTP_synthase#Cytoophidium]
def: "The temporary recovery of response to a stimulus when a novel stimulus is added." [GOC:kmv, PMID:11390637, Wikipedia:Habituation]
def: "A structure lying external to bacterial cells. A biofilm is an aggregate of surface-associated bacteria, and the biofilm matrix is the envelope of polymeric substances that surrounds the bacteria." [GOC:imk, PMID:22571672, Wikipedia:Biofilm]
def: "OBSOLETE. Any constituent part of the biofilm matrix, a structure lying external to bacterial cells. A biofilm is an aggregate of surface-associated bacteria, and the biofilm matrix is the envelope of polymeric substances that surrounds the bacteria." [GOC:imk, PMID:22571672, Wikipedia:Biofilm]
def: "The external part of the biofilm matrix, a structure lying external to bacterial cells. A biofilm is an aggregate of surface-associated bacteria, and the biofilm matrix is the envelope of polymeric substances that surrounds the bacteria." [GOC:imk, PMID:22571672, Wikipedia:Biofilm]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a toxic protein, disabling its function. There may be more than one antitoxin to a toxic protein. Instances of this activity are known only in prokaryotes, where the toxic protein may be a ribonuclease, a DNA gyrase, or other." [GOC:rs, PMID:19143615, PMID:19325885, PMID:21819231, PMID:22545240, Wikipedia:Toxin-antitoxin_system#Type_II]
def: "The perinucleolar compartment (PNC) is a subnuclear structure associated with, but structurally distinct from, the nucleolus. The PNC contains large amounts of the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein complex (hnRNP) called hnRNP 1 (PTB). Many RNA binding proteins as well as RNA polymerase III transcripts are highly enriched in this compartment. PTB and pol III transcripts are required for the integrity of the PNC." [GOC:vw, PMID:21385875, Wikipedia:Perinucleolar_compartment]
def: "Establishment of a structure near the basement membrane in adjacent Sertoli cells of the seminiferous epithelium for maintaining spermatogenesis. The structure consists of tight junctions, basal ectoplasmic specializations, and desmosome-like junctions." [GOC:sl, PMID:19509333, Wikipedia:Blood-testis_barrier]
def: "OBSOLETE. Any constituent part of a neuron, the basic cellular unit of nervous tissue. A typical neuron consists of a cell body (often called the soma), an axon, and dendrites. Their purpose is to receive, conduct, and transmit impulses in the nervous system." [GOC:pr, Wikipedia:Neuron]
def: "A synapse of a mossy fiber onto the dendrite of a granule cell; each mossy fiber can have up to 50 rosettes." [NIF_Subcellular:nlx_subcell_091021, Wikipedia:Mossy_fiber_(cerebellum)]
def: "Nuclear bodies frequently found near or associated with Cajal bodies (also called coiled bodies or CBs). Gemini of coiled bodies, or 'gems', are similar in size and shape to CBs, and often indistinguishable under the microscope. Unlike CBs, gems do not contain small nuclear ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs); they contain a protein called survivor of motor neurons (SMN) whose function relates to snRNP biogenesis. Gems are believed to assist CBs in snRNP biogenesis, and to play a role in the etiology of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA)." [GOC:pr, PMID:11031238, PMID:9683623, Wikipedia:Cell_nucleus#Cajal_bodies_and_gems]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell or an organism (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a disturbance in organismal or cellular homeostasis caused by the chemical structure of the anion portion of a dissociated acid (rather than the acid acting as a proton donor). The acid chemical may be in gaseous, liquid or solid form." [GOC:aa, GOC:BHF, GOC:go_curators, GOC:rl, PMID:10615049, PMID:19170886, Wikipedia:Acid]
def: "Any process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a disturbance in cellular homeostasis caused by the chemical structure of the anion portion of a dissociated acid (rather than the acid acting as a proton donor). The acid chemical may be in gaseous, liquid or solid form." [GOC:aa, GOC:BHF, GOC:go_curators, GOC:rl, PMID:10615049, PMID:19170886, Wikipedia:Acid]
def: "Part of an axoneme consisting in a doublet microtubule. Nine of these outer doublets form the 9+0 axoneme, while the 9+2 axoneme also contains a central pair. Dynein arms attached to the doublets provide the mechanism of movement of the cilium." [GOC:cilia, GOC:krc, GOC:pr, PMID:5044758, PMID:5664206, Wikipedia:Axoneme]
def: "The specialized envelope lying outside the cell membrane of a cyst. A cyst is a resting or dormant stage of a microorganism, usually a bacterium or a protist or rarely an invertebrate animal, that helps the organism to survive in unfavorable environmental conditions. In protists such as protozoan parasites alternating cystic- and non-cystic stages, the cyst wall is usually composed of carbohydrates and proteins." [GOC:giardia, PMID:15134259, PMID:2026212, Wikipedia:Microbial_cyst]
def: "Merging of two or more vacuoles, or of vacuoles and vesicles within a cell to form a single larger vacuole." [GOC:pr, GOC:vw, Wikipedia:Vacuole]
def: "A non-membrane-bounded organelle superficially similar to a bacterial-type flagellum; they both consist of filaments extending outside the cell, and rotate to propel the cell, but the archaeal flagella (also called archaella) have a unique structure which lacks a central channel. Similar to bacterial type IV pilins, the archaeal flagellins (archaellins) are made with class 3 signal peptides and they are processed by a type IV prepilin peptidase-like enzyme. The archaellins are typically modified by the addition of N-linked glycans which are necessary for proper assembly and/or function." [GOC:cilia, GOC:krc, PMID:21265748, PMID:23146836, PMID:23204365, PMID:24330313, Wikipedia:Flagellum#Archaeal]
def: "Cell motility due to the motion of one or more archaeal-type flagella. An archaeal-type flagellum (also called archaellum) is a non-membrane-bounded organelle superficially similar to a bacterial-type flagellum, but having a different molecular structure and lacking a central channel." [GOC:cilia, GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Flagellum#Archaeal]
def: "A motile cilium found in dinoflagellates. It coils around the cell and provides the forward thrust for motility. It is often contained in a furrow called the cingulum, and emerges from a flagellar pore located in the cingulum." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "A motile cilium found in dinoflagellates. It trails the cell and acts as a steering rudder. It is often partially contained in a furrow called the sulcus, and emerges from a flagellar pore located in the sulcus." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "A cell surface furrow that wraps around a dinoflagellate cell; the transverse flagellum lies in it." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "A cell surface furrow that occurs on the ventral side of a dinoflagellate cell. It partially houses the longitudinal flagellum. The sulcus intersects with the cingulum on the ventral side of a dinoflagellate cell." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "The part of a dinoflagellate cell above the cingulum; also referred to as the anterior portion of a dinoflagellate cell. It is separated from the hypocone by the cingulum." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "The part of a dinoflagellate cell below the cingulum; also referred to as the posterior portion of a dinoflagellate cell. It is separated from the epicone by the cingulum." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "A nucleic acid binding activity that brings together complementary sequences of nucleic acids so that they pair by hydrogen bonds to form a double-stranded polynucleotide." [GOC:mba, Wikipedia:Nucleic_acid_thermodynamics#Annealing]
def: "A dinoflagellate sulcus that extends all the way to the posterior end of the cell (also known as antapex). The presence of a sulcal notch makes the dinoflagellate hypocone appear bilobed." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "An instance of double-strand break repair via nonhomologous end joining that is independent of factors important for V(D)J recombination (as opposed to classical nonhomologous end joining). It often results in a deletion with microhomology (i.e. 5-25bp homology) at the repair junction. Among different subclasses of nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ), alternative NHEJ appears to play a significant role in the etiology of mutations that arise during cancer development and treatment." [GOC:rph, PMID:18584027, PMID:21655080, Wikipedia:Microhomology-mediated_end_joining]
def: "The anterior most point of a dinoflagellate epicone." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "The anterior most point of a dinoflagellate hypocone." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "A cell surface furrow (or groove) found on a dinoflagellate apex. It typically loops around the apex." [GOC:at, http://tolweb.org/Dinoflagellates/2445, http://www.sms.si.edu/irlspec/Phyl_Dinofl_Glossary.htm, ISBN:0632009152, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate#Morphology]
def: "The regrowth of neural tissue following its loss or destruction." [Wikipedia:Neuroregeneration]
def: "A specialised 9+0 non-motile cilium found in photoreceptor cells. A ciliary transition zone called 'photoreceptor connecting cilium' links the photoreceptor outer segment to the inner segment." [GOC:cilia, Wikipedia:Photoreceptor_cell#Histology]
def: "A hair-like structure covering the flagella found in some algae (heterokonts and cryptophytes). It is approximately 15 nm in diameter, and usually consist of a tubular shaft that itself terminates in smaller hairs. It is composed of glycoproteins and, likely, carbohydrates. Mastigonemes may assist in locomotion by increasing the surface area of a flagellum." [GOC:cilia, PMID:943397, Wikipedia:Mastigoneme]
def: "The elimination by an organism of urate salt or uric acid." [GOC:jl, Wikipedia:Uric_acid#Biology]
def: "A membrane organization process resulting in the bending of a membrane." [GOC:krc, GOC:pr, GOC:vw, Wikipedia:Membrane_curvature]
def: "A membrane bending process mediated by clathrin." [GOC:pr, Wikipedia:Membrane_curvature]
def: "Learning in which new behaviors are acquired through imitation." [GOC:dos, Wikipedia:Imitative_learning&oldid=593192364]
def: "Learning that occurs through observing the behavior of others." [GOC:dos, Wikipedia:Observational_learning&oldid=603524137]
def: "The binding by a cell-adhesion protein on a cell surface to an adhesion molecule on another cell surface, to mediate adhesion of the cell to the external substrate or to another cell." [GOC:vw, Wikipedia:Cell_adhesion]
def: "The binding by a cell-adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component, to mediate adhesion of the cell to another cell." [Wikipedia:Cell_adhesion]
def: "The binding by a cell-adhesion protein on the cell surface to an extracellular matrix component, to mediate adhesion of the cell to the extracellular matrix." [Wikipedia:Cell_adhesion]
def: "The postsynapse of a neuromuscular junction. In vertebrate muscles this includes the motor end-plate, consisting of postjunctional folds of the sarcolemma." [GOC:dos, Wikipedia:Neuromuscular_junction&oldid=723623502]
def: "A dense core vesicle (granule) that is part of a neuron.  These vesicles typically contain neuropeptides.  They can be found in all parts of neurons, including the soma, dendrites, axonal swellings (varicosities) and synaptic terminals." [GOC:dos, ISBN:978-0-07-181001-2, Wikipedia:Neuropeptide&oldid=713905176]
def: "The directed flow of cytosol (the liquid component of the cytoplasm) and the organelles it contains." [GOC:dos, Wikipedia:Cytoplasmic_streaming&oldid=706214009]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with sulfatide, also known as 3-O-sulfogalactosylceramide, SM4, or sulfated galactocerebroside. Sulfatide is a class of sulfoglycolipid, which are glycolipids that contain a sulfate group." [GOC:krc, PMID:21525289, PMID:22619219, PMID:22977233, PMID:23574804, PMID:29497057, PMID:3549017, Wikipedia:Sulfatide]
def: "A bacterial type IIA topoisomerase that is unique in its function of introducing negative supercoils into DNA at the expense of ATP hydrolysis and is also capable of relaxing positive supercoils, an activity shared with topoisomerase IV. Typically, it is composed of two copies each of an A subunit (GyrA) and a B subunit (GyrB)." [GOC:bhm, GOC:krc, PMID:1657531, PMID:20675723, Wikipedia:DNA_gyrase]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of a hydrocarbon, a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only." [GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Hydrocarbon]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving a hydrocarbon, a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only." [GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Hydrocarbon]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of a hydrocarbon, a compound consisting of carbon and hydrogen only." [GOC:krc, Wikipedia:Hydrocarbon]
def: "A giant secretory organelle that comprises a bulb-shape capsule containing a coiled hollow tubule structure attached to it. A cnida defines the phylum Cnidaria." [Wikipedia:Cnida#Structure_and_function]
def: "The formation of a transient pore in the plasma membrane and the attached contractile vacuolar membrane, to release water from the cell. This process does not involve fusion of the two membranes." [PMID:22323285, Wikipedia:Exocytosis]
def: "The cellular processes that contribute to exocytosis." [Wikipedia:Exocytosis]
def: "The crotonylation of a lysine residue in a protein. Crotonyl is the univalent radical CH3-CH=CH-CO- derived from crotonic acid." [PMID:25818647, Wikipedia:crotonyl]
def: "The butyrylation of a lysine residue in a protein. Butyryl is the univalent radical C3H7COO- derived from butyric acid." [PMID:27105113, Wikipedia:butyryl]
def: "Catalysis of the cleavage of an AP site 3' of the baseless site by a beta-lyase mechanism, leaving an unsaturated aldehyde, termed a 3'-(4-hydroxy-5-phospho-2-pentenal) residue, and a 5'-phosphate." [PMID:1698278, Wikipedia:AP_endonuclease]
def: "Catalysis of the cleavage of an AP site 3' and 5' of the baseless site, generating a 3'-phosphate and a 5'-OH." [PMID:2519777, Wikipedia:AP_endonuclease]
def: "A molecular function that controls the rate, timing and/or magnitude of gene transcription. The function of transcriptional regulators is to modulate gene expression at the transcription step so that they are expressed in the right cell at the right time and in the right amount throughout the life of the cell and the organism. Genes are transcriptional units, and include bacterial operons." [GOC:pg, GOC:txnOH-2018, Wikipedia:Transcription_factor]
def: "A cellular process in which two or more cells combine together, their plasma membrane fusing, producing a single cell. In some cases, nuclei fuse, producing a polyploid cell, while in other cases, nuclei remain separate, producing a syncytium." [Wikipedia:Cell_fusion]
def: "Recognizing, binding and sequestering a specific receptor ligand to prevent it from binding to its regular receptor." [Wikipedia:Decoy_receptors]
def: "Catalysis of the movement of lipids from the exoplasmic to the cytosolic leaftlet of a membrane, using energy from the hydrolysis of ATP." [PMID:20043909, PMID:25284293, Wikipedia:Flippase]
def: "Catalysis of the movement of a lipid from the cytosolic to the exoplasmic leaftlet of a membrane, using energy from the hydrolysis of ATP." [PMID:20043909, PMID:25284293, Wikipedia:Flippase]
def: "A ribonucleoprotein granule located in the cytoplasm that is formed by the RNA-binding protein TIS11B and RNA molecules, enriched in membrane protein-encoding mRNAs with multiple AU-rich elements. TIS granules are reticular meshworks intertwined with the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)." [PMID:30449617, PMID:30479375, Wikipedia:TIGER_domain]
def: "Receiving a signal and transmitting it in a cell to initiate an immune response." [PMID:31415752, Wikipedia:Immune_receptor]
def: "Any process that modulates the frequency, rate or extent of dosage compensation, by inactivation of X chromosome." [GOC:mr, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:20622855, Wikipedia:XY_sex-determination_system]
def: "Enables the directed movement of azoles, heterocyclic compound found in many biologically important substances, from one side of a membrane to the other." [GOC:go_curators, ISBN:3527307206, Wikipedia:Azole]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with calcitriol. Calcitriol (1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol) is the hormonally active form of vitamin D3." [GOC:TermGenie, PMID:21872797, Wikipedia:Calcitriol_receptor]
def: "A small, membranous protrusion found primarily on dendritic stretches of developing neurons. May receive synaptic input, and can develop into dendritic spines." [GO_REF:0000064, GOC:pad, GOC:PARL, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:24464040, Wikipedia:Dendritic_filopodia]
def: "The process whose specific outcome is the progression of a subarachnoid space over time, from its formation to the mature structure." [GO_REF:0000094, GOC:cjm, GOC:TermGenie, Wikipedia:Subarachnoid_space]
def: "The process in which a relatively unspecialized cell acquires the specialized features of an enterocyte." [GO_REF:0000086, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:16782882, Wikipedia:List_of_intestinal_epithelial_differentiation_genes]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways involving blasticidin S." [GO_REF:0000068, GOC:pr, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:23874663, Wikipedia:Blasticidin_S]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the breakdown of blasticidin S." [GO_REF:0000068, GOC:pr, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:23874663, Wikipedia:Blasticidin_S]
def: "The chemical reactions and pathways resulting in the formation of blasticidin S." [GO_REF:0000068, GOC:pr, GOC:TermGenie, PMID:23874663, Wikipedia:Blasticidin_S]
def: "Enables the transmembrane transfer of a calcium ion by an intermediate voltage-gated channel. An intermediate voltage-gated channel is a channel whose open state is dependent on intermediate voltage across the membrane in which it is embedded." [GOC:BHF, GOC:rl, PMID:16382099, Wikipedia:Calcium_channel]
def: "A process that results in a change in state or activity of a cell (in terms of movement, secretion, enzyme production, gene expression, etc.) as a result of a nerve growth factor stimulus." [PMID:22399805, Wikipedia:Nerve_growth_factor]
def: "The movement of substances between cells via gap junctions. A gap junction is a fine cytoplasmic channel, found in animal cells, that connects the cytoplasm of one cell to that of an adjacent cell, allowing ions and other molecules to pass freely between the two cells." [GOC:hjd, PMID:14506308, PMID:23261543, Wikipedia:Gap_junction]
def: "An actin-rich cytoskeletal network located beneath the microvilli of the apical plasma membrane of polarized epithelial cells. In addition to actin filaments, the terminal web may contain actin-binding proteins, myosin motor proteins, and intermediate filaments. The terminal web can function as a contractile structure that influences the spatial distribution of microvilli as well as the development and morphogenesis of tissues containing polarized epithelial cells." [GOC:kmv, PMID:19437512, PMID:24677443, PMID:7511618, Wikipedia:Terminal_web]
def: "A small pigmented organelle used in single-celled organisms to detect light." [Wikipedia:Eyespot_apparatus]
def: "The dilated terminal portions of neurosecretory axons constituting the hypothalamohypophyseal tract, found in close proximity to sinusoidal capillaries in the posterior pituitary. Herring bodies consist of aggregates of membrane-bound neurosecretory vesicles where oxytocin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH) are stored prior to release. Each Herring body also contains ATP and either neurophysin I or neurophysin II which bind to oxytocin and ADH, respectively." [ISBN:0199652473, Wikipedia:Herring_bodies]
def: "A non-membrane-bounded organelle found within the chloroplasts of algae and hornworts; responsible for carbon dioxide fixation." [GOC:cjm, GOC:pr, PMID:23345319, Wikipedia:Pyrenoid]
def: "OBSOLETE. Enables the non-selective, energy-independent passage of anions across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient." [GOC:pr, ISBN:0878937420, Wikipedia:Ion_channel#Classification_by_type_of_ions]
def: "OBSOLETE. Enables the non-selective, energy-independent passage of cations across a lipid bilayer down a concentration gradient." [GOC:pr, ISBN:0878937420, Wikipedia:Ion_channel#Classification_by_type_of_ions]
def: "An extracellular vesicle released from the plasma membrane and ranging in size from about 100 nm to 1000 nm." [GOC:vesicles, PMID:22418571, PMID:24009894, Wikipedia:Microvesicles]
def: "A small, flexible, finger-like projection of cytoplasm containing an array of microtubles and located near the flagellar pores in some photosynthetic as well as nonphotosynthetic dinoflagellate species. Its functions are not fully understood, but it has been associated with feeding behavior (phagotrophy)." [GOC:at, PMID:1480107, Wikipedia:Dinoflagellate]
def: "Interacting selectively and non-covalently with a trans-activation response (TAR) element, a hairpin RNA structure located at the 5' end of all HIV-1 transcripts, and which is required for trans-activation of a viral promoter." [GOC:bf, GOC:PARL, PMID:25116364, Wikipedia:Trans-activation_response_element_(TAR)]
